/*  
 * Mach Operating System
 * Copyright (c) 1989 Carnegie-Mellon University
 * All rights reserved.  The CMU software License Agreement specifies
 * the terms and conditions for use and redistribution.
 */
/* 
 * HISTORY
 * $Log:	MACH_CHANGES,v $
 * Revision 2.2  89/02/26  13:50:10  gm0w
 * 	Changes for cleanup.
 * 
 * 16-Feb-89  Robert Baron (rvb) at Carnegie-Mellon University
 *	Compared cassette/ with bsd4.3
 *
 */

cassette/boot.730 differ
cassette/boot.750 differ
cassette/copy.730 differ
cassette/copy.750 differ
cassette/drtest.730 differ
cassette/drtest.750 differ
cassette/format.730 differ
cassette/format.750 differ


Would be Removed by make clean
	cassette not in bsd
	cassette/cassette.out were identical
	cassette/cassette.out1 were identical
	cassette/defboo.cmd were identical

cassette/Makefile are identical
cassette/anyboo.cmd are identical
cassette/defboo.hk are identical
cassette/defboo.ra are identical
cassette/defboo.rb are identical
cassette/defboo.rl are identical
cassette/defboo.up are identical
cassette/hkmboo.cmd are identical
cassette/hksboo.cmd are identical
cassette/ramboo.cmd are identical
cassette/rasboo.cmd are identical
cassette/rbmboo.cmd are identical
cassette/rbsboo.cmd are identical
cassette/restar.cmd are identical
cassette/rlsboo.cmd are identical
cassette/update.out are identical
cassette/upmboo.cmd are identical
cassette/upsboo.cmd are identical
