.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	clock_map.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.2  94/12/16  10:58:51  dbg
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[94/10/20            dbg]
.\" 
.TH clock_map 2 10/20/94
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
clock_map  \-  return a memory object for a clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t
clock_map(
	mach_clock_t	clock,
	memory_object_t	*pager);		/* out */

.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
clock
The status port for the clock.
.TP 15
.B
pager
Returns a memory object that maps the clock's current time.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B clock_map
returns a memory object which can be mapped into a task's
address space in order to read a clock's current time.
The clock's time is visible at offset 0 in the object
as a
.B mapped_timespec_t
structure, which should be read with the
.B mapped_timespec_read
macro in
.B <mach/timespec.h>
in order to see a consistent value.


.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
Operation completed successfully
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_VALUE
.B clock
does not designate the status port to a Mach clock.

.SH BUGS

.SH SEE ALSO
.B clock_get_time, clock_get_resolution, clock_get_best_resolution, clock_set_time, clock_set_resolution.


