.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	clock_set_time.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.2  94/12/16  10:59:18  dbg
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[94/10/20            dbg]
.\" 
.TH clock_set_time 2 10/20/94
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
clock_set_time  \-  set the current time of a clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t
clock_set_time(
	mach_clock_priv_t	clock,
	timespec_t		*ts);		/* in/out */

.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
clock
The control port for the clock.
.TP 15
.B
ts
Pointer to a 
.B timespec_t
variable containing the desired time.
The time may be adjusted to be a multiple of the clock's resolution,
if clock cannot hold the exact time.  The adjusted time is returned
in this variable.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B clock_set_time
sets the current time for a clock.  The time is measured with
respect to the clock's time base.  Not all clocks allow the
time to be set.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
Operation completed successfully
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B clock
does not designate the control port to a Mach clock.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_CAPABILITY
The clock's time cannot be set.

.SH BUGS

.SH SEE ALSO
.B clock_get_time, clock_map, clock_get_resolution, clock_get_best_resolution, clock_set_resolution.


