 .\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	host_get_clock_control.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.2  94/12/16  10:59:40  dbg
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[94/10/20            dbg]
.\" 
.TH host_get_clock_control 2 10/20/94
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
host_get_control_clock  \-  get the control port for a clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t
host_get_clock_control(
	host_priv_t		host_priv,
	mach_clock_t		clock,
	mach_clock_control_t	*clock_control);	/* out */


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
host_priv
The privileged host port for the host on which
.B clock
is located.
.TP 15
.B
clock
The status port to the clock.
.TP 15
.B
clock_control
Returns the control port to the named clock device.

.SH DESCRIPTION
A Mach clock has two ports.  The
.B status port
allows the clock to be read and its resolution to be
queried.  The
.B control port
must be used to change the clock's resolution or time.
.B host_get_clock_control
returns the control port to a clock when it is given
the clock's status port and its host's privileged host port.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
Operation completed successfully
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_VALUE
.B host_priv
does not designate the privileged port to a Mach host, or
.B clock
does not designate the status port of a Mach clock on this host.

.SH BUGS

.SH SEE ALSO
.B host_get_clock, host_get_update_clock, host_clocks, clock_get_time,
.B clock_get_resolution, clock_set_time, clock_set_resolution.


