.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	host_clocks.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.2  94/12/16  10:59:30  dbg
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[94/10/20            dbg]
.\" 
.TH host_clocks 2 10/20/94
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
host_clocks  \-  return the status ports to all clocks on a host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t
host_clocks(
	host_t			host,
	mach_clock_array_t	*clock_list,		/* out, ptr to array */
	natural_t		*clock_list_count);	/* out */


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
host
The host port for the host whose clocks are requested.
.TP 15
.B
clock_array
Returns a pointer to the array of status ports for the clocks on
.B host.
.TP 15
.B
clock_array_count
Returns the number of entries in
.B clock_array.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B host_clocks
returns the status ports for all clocks on the host.

.B clock_list
is an array that is
created as a result of this call. The caller may wish to 
.B vm_deallocate
this array when the data is no longer needed.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
Operation completed successfully
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_VALUE
.B host
does not designate Mach host.

.SH BUGS

.SH SEE ALSO
.B host_get_clock, host_get_update_clock, host_get_named_clock. host_get_clock_control.


