 .\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1994,1993 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	mach_timer_arm.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.2  94/12/16  10:59:59  dbg
.\" 	Renamed to "mach_timer_arm".
.\" 	[94/10/20            dbg]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  93/12/07  14:00:44  dbg
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.\" 
.TH mach_timer_arm 2 9/22/93
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
mach_timer_arm  \-  arm a timer to expire
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t
mach_timer_arm(
	mach_timer_t	timer,
	time_spec_t	expire_time,
	time_spec_t	interval_time,
	mach_port_t	expire_port,
	thread_t	thread,
	int		flags);


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
timer
The timer to arm.
.TP 15
.B expire_time
The time at which the timer will expire, measured
against
.B timer's
clock.
.TP 15
.B interval_time
The interval at which the timer will again expire,
if the timer is set to expire periodically.
.TP 15
.B expire_port
A send right to a port to which the timer expiration
message will be sent.
.TP 15
.B thread
A thread to suspend when the timer expires, or
THREAD_NULL if none.
.TP 15
.B flags
Options for the expiration time and the action
to be taken.


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mach_timer_arm
sets a timer to expire at a particular time, and,
optionally, to expire at periodic intervals after
that time.  The expiration time may be specified
as absolute, if
.B TIMER_ABSOLUTE
is set in
.B flags;
otherwise, the expiration time is relative to
the current time (of
.B timer's
clock).  If
.B TIMER_PERIODIC
is set in
.B flags,
the timer will expire at
.B expire_time,
and at every
.B interval_time
interval afterwards.

When the timer expires, a
.B mach_timer_expire
message is sent to
.B expire_port.
The message contains the absolute time at which
the timer expired.  If the timer is periodic,
the message will be sent at the end of every
period.  However, if
.B expire_port
is full (its message queue exceeds its queue limit),
the message will not be sent.  Instead, the timer's
.B overrun count
will be incremented.  At the next timer expiration
when the message can successfully be sent, the
overrun count will be added to the timer expiration
message, and the timer's overrun count will be reset
to zero.

If
.B TIMER_THREAD_SUSPEND
is set in
.B flags,
the specified thread will be suspended when the timer expires.
If the thread is blocked in an uninterruptible wait within
the Mach kernel, it is not guaranteed to be completely suspended
by the time the
.B mach_timer_expire
message is delivered.  The receiver
of the message can issue a thread_get_state call to ensure that
the suspension is complete.  The suspended thread can be
resumed with the thread_resume call.

If the timer is set to be periodic, the thread will be suspended
again at the end of each period (unless the current interval is
canceled with
.B timer_cancel).  Thread_resume must be called as many times
as the thread was suspended to make the thread run again.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
Operation completed successfully
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B timer
is not a timer, or
.B expire_time
or
.B interval_time
is not a valid time specification, or
.B interval_time
is less than the resolution of
.B timer's
clock, or
.B expire_port
is not a valid port, or
.B thread
is not a valid thread.

.TP 25
KERN_FAILURE
.B timer
is currently armed.

.SH BUGS

.SH SEE ALSO
.B mach_timer_create, mach_timer_terminate, mach_timer_sleep, mach_timer_cancel.

