.TH DSUN 1 "February 1984"
.SH NAME
dsun \- display ditroff output on a SUN workstation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B dsun
[
.BI \-o outputlist
]  filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dsun
reads the ditroff output file
.I filename
and displays the typeset document, page by page, on the console
of a SUN workstation.  It can show output destined for any other
printer, providing that the font files that emulate that printer
are resident on the disk.  See dsun(8) for instructions on installing
dsun and its fonts.  If
.I filename
is missing standard input is read.
.PP
The pages are placed on the screen assuming that the width of the screen
is approximately 8.5 inches, which it is not.  Therefore the output on
the screen will not show up actual size.  This also means that the whole
8.5 by 11 inch page does not fit on the screen at once.  There are commands,
described below, that allow the user to see the rest of the page.  Anything
that does not fit on the page will be ignored.
.PP
The
.B \-o
option works the same with
.I dsun
as it does with
.IR ditroff ,
printing only those pages requested.  After displaying each page,
a message is printed at the upper-left-hand corner of the screen
telling which page is being shown.  At that point, the user can
give a variety of commands to view that page or other pages.  The
commands themselves are not echoed.  A list of commands follows:
.TP
.B "<space>"
pushes the page up by a small amount.  After two spaces have been
typed the whole page has been seen and another space will cause
.I dsun
to move to the next page.
.TP
.B "<return>\0or\0\(->"
moves to the next page, or ends the program if the current page is
the last one.
.TP
.if t .B "\(ua\0or\0u"
.if n .B "<up-arrow>\0or\0u"
pushes the current page up (as in <\f2space\fP>) but around in a
circle so that the top of the page comes back around the bottom.
.TP
.if t .B "\(da\0or\0d"
.if n .B "<down-arrow>\0or\0d"
pushes the current page down (reverse of \(ua or u).
.TP
.B q
quit
.PP
The following commands will only work while running
.I dsun
on a file, not if the document comes from standard input
.TP
.B \(<-
move back one page (does nothing if at the beginning of the document)
.TP
.IB number g
display page
.I number
(``go'' to page
.IR number ).
Also accepted are
.B G
and
.BR p .
If the page does not exist,
.I dsun
will display the last page of the document.
.TP
.B $
go to the last page of the document
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
ditroff(1)
.SH AUTHOR
David Slattengren
