.TH DSUN 8 "February 1984"
.SH NAME
dsun \- display ditroff output on a SUN workstation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B dsun
[
.BI \-f fontdirectory
.BI \-F bitdirectory
.BI \-o outputlist
.BI \-d #
.BI \-r #
.B \-x
.B \-p
]  filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dsun
reads the ditroff output file
.I filename
and displays the typeset document, page by page, on the console
of a SUN workstation.  See dsun(1) for instructions on using the
program.  This manual page is meant to guide the installer.
.PP
.SH WHAT GOES WHERE
All of the files
.I dsun
deals with are in the /usr/lib/font/dev\f2printer\fP directories.
This is where the DESC.out width table files go.  Also in these
directories are the font files that
.I dsun
uses to emulate various printers.  These directories are
changeable via the
.B \-f
and
.B \-F
options.  \-f changes where to look for DESC.out files, and
\-F changes the font raster directory.  All font files are accessed
as ``1-or-2 character ditroff font name `.' point size'' (e.g.
.BR R.10 ,
.BR CW.24 ).
.PP
There must be one ``dev\f2printer\fP'' directory for
each \f2printer\fP you want to emulate.  There should also
be one ``devsun'' directory.  The dev\f2printer\fP directories
are searched to find a particular font, when needed.  If that
font can't be found (in ANY point size), ``devsun'' is searched.
This way devsun can be a catch-all directory that could possibly
contain common font files.
.PP
The way the author has used it, devsun has all the font files
for both versatec and varian devices (since they are identical).
A DESC.out file for the varian also resides there, making ``sun''
a varian equivalent.
.SH FONTS
.PP
A minimum font requirement for a particular printer should provide
each special character in at least one font.  That way, when special
characters are requested, they will show up on the SUN screen if
they exist.  It is only necessary to provide one point size, probably
10 since it is used most often.  All requests get dropped to the
nearest lower (if it exists) or higher available point size if the
one requested is not present.
.PP
In order to get a reasonable approximation of the final output
it is better to provide 3 or 4 point sizes.  At least one smaller
than 10 point (7 is pretty good) and one higher (around 14) helps
out a lot.   If extended use of large point sizes is expected, it
might be worth while to provide an even larger one (like 24).
.PP
You must use the special
.I ch2vft
font conversion program (the SUN version) to make up these fonts.
As long as the font comes in the ``.@'' format, this is easy to
do.  Both Imagen and Versatec fonts can be converted to this
format using the
.I rst2ch
and
.I vft2ch
programs.  The resolution of the SUN fonts is 120 pixels per inch.
Taking a font directly from another device (of presumably differing
resolution) cannot be done, but they may be processed through
.I scalech
(at the appropriate percentage reduction) to get them to the
correct relative size.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-x
Use exclusive-or mode when printing to screen.
.TP
.B \-p
Transform each 'P' command comming in from the input file to a 'p'.
This forces
.I dsun
to stop at each band output from vsort.
.TP
.BI \-r #
Changes the resolution of the SUN screen from the default, 120 pixels
per inch, to
.IR # .
This only changes the position of glyphs and the graphics.  Point sizes
do not change.
.TP
.BI \-d #
only works if
.I dsun
is compiled with the DEBUG flag on.  Starts debugging output.  Gets more
debugging output if
.I #
is greater than 1.
.TP
.BI \-o outputlist
Does the same function as the
.B \-o
option to troff.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
ditroff(1), dsun(1), vft2ch(8),
ch2vft(8), doublech(8), scalech(8)
.SH AUTHOR
David Slattengren
