.TH TC 1 
.SH NAME
tc \- troff output interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tc
[
.B \-t
]
[
.BI \-o list
]
[
.BI \-a n
]
[
.B \-e
]
[
file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tc
interprets its
input (standard input default)
as output from
.IR troff (I).
The standard output of
.I tc
is intended for a Tektronix 4015 (a 4014 teminal
with ASCII and APL character sets).
The various typesetter sizes are mapped into the 4014's
four sizes;
the entire TROFF character set is drawn using the 4014's
character generator,
using overstruck combinations where necessary,
producing an altogether displeasing effect.
Typical usage:
.IP "" 15
troff file | tc
.PP
At the end of each page
.I tc
waits for a newline (empty line) from the keyboard before
continuing on to the next page.
In this wait state,
.BI ! line
will send
.I line
to the shell;
.BI + n
will skip forward
.I n
pages;
.BI \- n
will skip backwards 
.I n 
pages;
.BI e
will invert the state of erasing;
.BI a n
will set the aspect ratio to
.BI n 
(default is 1.5);
and
.B ?
will print the list of available options.
.PP
The command line options are:
.TP
.B  \-t
Don't wait between pages; for directing output into a file.
.TP
.BI \-o list
prints only the pages enumerated in
.IR list .
The list consists of pages and page ranges (e.g., 5-17)
separated by commas.  
The range
.I n\-
goes from
.I n
to the end;
the range
.I \-n
goes from the beginning to and including
page
.IR n.
.TP
.BI \-a n
Set the aspect ratio to
.IR n ;
default is 1.5.
.TP
.B \-e
Don't erase before each page.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
troff(1),
plot(1)
.SH BUGS
Font distinctions are lost.
.br
It needs a
.B \-w
option to wait for input to arrive.
