.TH TROFF 1 
.SH NAME
troff \- text formatting and typesetting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B troff
[ option ] ...
[ file ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Troff
formats text in the named
.I files
for
printing on a phototypesetter.
Its capabilities are described in the
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual.
.PP
If no
.I file
argument is present, the standard input is read.
An argument consisting of a single minus
.RB ( \- )
is taken to be
a file name corresponding to the standard input.
The options, which may appear in any order so long as they appear
before the files, are:
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.BI \-o list
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in
the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.
A range
.IB N \- M
means pages
.I N
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.I \-N
means
from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final
.IR N \-
means
from
.I N
to the end.
.TP
.BI \-n N
Number first generated page
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-s N
Generate output to encourage typesetter to
stop every
.I N
pages.
.TP
.BI \-m name
Prepend the macro file
.BI /usr/lib/tmac/tmac. name
to the input
.IR files .
.TP
.BI \-r aN
Set register
.I a
(one character name) to
.IR N .
.TP
.B \-i
Read standard input after the input files are exhausted.
.TP
.B \-q
Invoke the simultaneous input-output mode of the
.B rd
request.
.TP
.TP
.B \-a
Send a printable ASCII approximation
of the results to the standard output.
.TP
.BR \-T dest
Prepare output for typesetter
.IR dest .
.B \-T202
= Mergenthaler Linotron 202 (default),
.B \-Tcat
= Graphic Systems C/A/T,
.B \-Taps
= Autologic APS-5.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*  'u
.br
/tmp/trtmp*	temporary file
.br
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*	standard macro files
.br
/usr/lib/font/*	font width tables
.SH "SEE ALSO"
J. F. Ossanna,
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual
.br
B. W. Kernighan,
.I
A TROFF Tutorial
.br
eqn(1), tbl(1), pic(1), refer(1), ideal(1)
.br
tc(1), d202(1)
