h17009
s 00002/00002/00105
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:44:11 bostic 6 5
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00094/00046/00013
d D 6.3 91/03/27 23:51:30 cael 5 4
c  macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00009/00012/00050
d D 6.2 86/05/16 15:58:37 karels 4 3
c new silo handling
e
s 00001/00001/00061
d D 6.1 85/05/15 17:18:43 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00008/00011/00054
d D 5.1 85/05/15 17:18:32 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00065/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 17:18:24 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 5
I 5
D 6
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 6
I 6
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 6
E 5
.\"
D 5
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 5
I 5
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 5
.\"
D 2
.TH DH 4 4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH DH 4 "27 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
D 5
.TH DH 4 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
dh, dm \- DH-11/DM-11 communications multiplexer
E 2
I 2
dh \- DH-11/DM-11 communications multiplexer
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
device dh0 at uba0 csr 0160020 vector dhrint dhxint
E 2
I 2
.B "device dh0 at uba0 csr 0160020 vector dhrint dhxint"
E 2
.br
D 2
device dm0 at uba0 csr 0170500 vector dmintr
E 2
I 2
.B "device dm0 at uba0 csr 0170500 vector dmintr"
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
A dh-11 provides 16 communication lines; dm-11's may be optionally
paired with dh-11's to provide modem control for the lines.
.PP
Each line attached to the DH-11 communications multiplexer
behaves as described in
.IR tty (4).
Input and output for each line may independently
be set to run at any of 16 speeds;
E 5
I 5
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt DH 4 vax
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm dh
.Nd
.Tn DH-11 Ns / Tn DM-11
multiplexer device interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "device dh0 at uba0 csr 0160020 vector dhrint dhxint" Op Ar flags
.Cd "device dm0 at uba0 csr 0170500 vector dmintr" Op Ar flags
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A
.Tn DH-11
provides 16 serial communication lines;
.Tn DM-11 Ns s
may optionally be
paired with
.Tn DH-11 Ns s
to provide modem control for the lines.
.Pp
An optional argument
.Ar flags
may be supplied with the device specification
in the
.Xr config 8
file indicating
that the line corresponding to
bit number
.Ar i
is not properly
connected, and should be treated as hard-wired with carrier
always present.  Thus specifying
.Ql flags 0x0004
for
.Li dh0
would cause line
.Pa ttyh2
to be treated in this way.
.Pp
Normal I/O
control parameters for individual lines are managed by
.Xr ioctl 2
calls.
Line speeds may be initiated via
.Xr getty 8
and
.Xr stty 1
or may be communicated by other programs which
utilize
.Xr ioctl
such as
.Xr ifcongif 8 ,
E 5
see
D 5
.IR tty (4)
for the encoding.
.PP
Bit
.I i
of flags may be specified for a dh to say that a line is not properly
connected, and that the line should be treated as hard-wired with carrier
always present.  Thus specifying ``flags 0x0004'' in the specification of dh0
would cause line ttyh2 to be treated in this way.
.PP
E 5
I 5
.Xr tty 4  .
.Pp
E 5
D 2
If the Berknet line driver
.IR bk (4)
is included in the system, then the dh driver will use its input silos
and poll for input at each clock tick (normally 1/50'th or 1/60'th of a
second) rather than taking an interrupt on each input character.
E 2
I 2
D 4
The dh driver normally uses input silos
and polls for input at each clock tick (10 milliseconds)
rather than taking an interrupt on each input character.
E 4
I 4
The
D 5
.I dh
E 5
I 5
.Nm dh
E 5
driver monitors the rate of input on each board,
and switches between the use of character-at-a-time interrupts
and input silos.
While the silo is enabled during periods of high-speed input,
the driver polls for input 30 times per second.
E 4
E 2
D 5
.SH FILES
D 4
/dev/tty[hi][0-9a-f]
E 4
I 4
/dev/tty[h-o][0-9a-f]
E 4
.br
/dev/ttyd[0-9a-f]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tty(4)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBdh%d: NXM\fR.  No response from UNIBUS on a dma transfer
within a timeout period.  This is often followed by a UNIBUS adapter
error.  This occurs most frequently when the UNIBUS is heavily loaded
and when devices which hog the bus (such as rk07's) are present.
E 5
I 5
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/tty[h-o][0-9a-f]x -compact
.It Pa /dev/tty[h-o][0-9a-f]
.It Pa /dev/ttyd[0-9a-f]
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It dh%d: NXM.
No response from
.Tn UNIBUS
on a dma transfer
within a timeout period.  This is often followed by a
.Tn UNIBUS
adapter
error.  This occurs most frequently when the
.Tn UNIBUS
is heavily loaded
and when devices which hog the bus (such as
.Tn RK07 Ns s) are present.
E 5
It is not serious.
D 5
.PP
D 2
\fBdh%d: silo overflow\fR.  The 64 character input silo overflowed
E 2
I 2
\fBdh%d: silo overflow\fR.  The character input silo overflowed
E 5
I 5
.Pp
.It dh%d: silo overflow.
The character input silo overflowed
E 5
E 2
before it could be serviced.  This can happen if a hard error occurs
D 5
when the CPU is running with elevated priority, as the system will
E 5
I 5
when the
.Tn CPU
is running with elevated priority, as the system will
E 5
D 4
then print a message on the console with interrupts disabled.  If the
Berknet
D 2
.IR net (1)
E 2
is running on a
.I dh
line at high speed (e.g. 9600 baud), there is only 1/15th of a second of
buffering capacity in the silo, and overrun is possible.  This may
cause a few input characters to be lost to users and a network
packet is likely to be corrupted, but the network will recover.
E 4
I 4
then print a message on the console with interrupts disabled.
E 4
It is not serious.
I 5
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tty 4
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm
driver appeared in
.At v6 .
E 5
E 1
