h36312
s 00002/00002/00134
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:44:30 bostic 7 6
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00107/00068/00029
d D 6.5 91/03/27 23:51:32 cael 6 5
c  macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00012/00003/00085
d D 6.4 86/05/16 15:58:40 karels 5 4
c new silo handling
e
s 00030/00027/00058
d D 6.3 86/04/27 01:01:53 donn 4 3
c Added a description of the line printer driver.  Removed several DH-isms.
e
s 00001/00001/00084
d D 6.2 85/10/14 16:55:06 mckusick 3 2
c fix csr address
e
s 00004/00004/00081
d D 6.1 85/05/15 17:42:14 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00085/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 17:42:08 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 6
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 6
I 6
D 7
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 7
I 7
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 7
E 6
.\"
D 6
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 6
I 6
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 6
.\"
D 2
.TH DMF 4 "27 July 1983"
E 2
I 2
D 6
.TH DMF 4 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
dmf \- DMF-32, terminal multiplexor
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 3
.B "device dmf0 at uba? csr 0170000"
E 3
I 3
.B "device dmf0 at uba? csr 0160340"
E 3
.br
.ti +0.5i
.B "vector dmfsrint dmfsxint dmfdaint dmfdbint dmfrint dmfxint dmflint"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I dmf
E 6
I 6
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt DMF 4 vax
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh NAME
.Nm dmf
.Nd
.Tn DMF-32
terminal multiplexor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "device dmf0 at uba? csr 0160340 vector dmfsrint dmfsxint dmfdaint dmfdbint dmfrint dmfxint dmflint"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm dmf
E 6
D 2
device provides 8 lines of asynchronous serial line support with full
modem control (the DMF-32 provides other services, but these are
not supported by the driver).
E 2
I 2
D 4
device provides 8 lines of asynchronous serial line support. The first two
of these have full modem control
(the DMF-32 provides other services, but these are not supported by the driver).
E 4
I 4
device provides 8 lines of asynchronous serial line support.
The first two of these have full modem control.
The device also provides a line printer port
D 6
similar to the LP-11.
Other features of the DMF-32 are not supported.
I 5
During autoconfiguration, the driver examines the configuration of each DMF-32
E 6
I 6
similar to the
.Tn LP-11 .
Other features of the
.Tn DMF-32
are not supported.
During autoconfiguration, the driver examines the configuration of each
.Tn DMF-32
E 6
and adjusts the interrupt vectors so that fewer vector locations are used
if possible.
E 5
E 4
E 2
D 6
.PP
Each line attached to a DMF-32 serial line port behaves as described
in
.IR tty (4).
Input and output for each line may independently be set to run at any
of 16 speeds; see
.IR tty (4)
for the encoding.
.PP
Bit
.I i
of flags may be specified for a
.I dmf
to to say that a line is not properly connected, and that the
line should be treated as hard-wired with carrier always present.
D 4
Thus specifying ``flags 0x0004'' in the specification of 
E 4
I 4
Thus specifying ``flags 0x04'' in the specification of 
E 4
.IR dmf 0
D 4
would cause line ttyh2 to be treated in this way.
E 4
I 4
would cause line ttyA2 to be treated in this way.
E 6
I 6
.Pp
An optional argument
.Ar flags
may be supplied with the device specification
in the config file indicating
that the line corresponding to
bit number
.Ar i
is not properly
connected, and should be treated as hard-wired with carrier
always present.  Thus specifying
.Ql flags 0x04
for
.Li dmf0
would cause line
.Pa ttyA2
to be treated in this way.
E 6
I 5
Flags should be set for all lines without hardware support for modem control.
E 5
E 4
D 6
.PP
E 6
I 6
.Pp
Normal
.Tn I/O
control parameters for individual lines are managed by
.Xr ioctl 2
calls.
Line speeds may be initiated via
.Xr getty 8
and
.Xr stty 1
or may be communicated by other programs which
utilize
.Xr ioctl
such as
.Xr ifcongif 8 ,
see
.Xr tty 4  .
.Pp
E 6
D 4
The
E 4
I 4
The serial line part of the
E 4
D 6
.I dmf
E 6
I 6
.Nm dmf
E 6
D 5
driver normally uses input silos and polls for input at each clock
tick (10 milliseconds).
E 5
I 5
driver normally enables the input silos with a short timeout
(30 milliseconds); this allows multiple characters to be received
per interrupt during periods of high-speed input.
E 5
I 4
D 6
.PP
A line printer port on
.I dmf\^n
E 6
I 6
.Pp
A line printer port on a
.Nm dmf
E 6
is designated by
D 6
a minor device number of the form 128+\fIn\fP.
Columns and lines per page may be changed from the default
E 6
I 6
a minor device number of the form
.Pf 128+ Ns Ar n .
See
.Xr MAKEDEV 8 .
Column and lines per page may be changed from the default
E 6
132 columns and 66 lines by encoding the number of columns
in bits 8-15 of flags and the number of lines in bits 16-23.
This device does not provide the fancy output canonicalization
features of the
D 6
.IR lp (4)
E 6
I 6
.Xr lp 4
E 6
driver.
E 4
D 6
.SH FILES
D 4
/dev/tty[hi][0-9a-f]
E 4
I 4
D 5
/dev/tty[A-I][0-7]
E 5
I 5
/dev/tty[A-CE-I][0-7]
E 5
E 4
.br
D 4
/dev/ttyd[0-9a-f]
E 4
I 4
/dev/ttyd[0-7]
.br
/dev/lp
E 4
.SH SEE ALSO
tty(4)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR "dmf%d: NXM line %d" .
D 4
No response from UNIBUS on a dma transfer
E 4
I 4
No response from UNIBUS on a DMA transfer
E 4
within a timeout period.  This is often followed by a UNIBUS adapter
error.  This occurs most frequently when the UNIBUS is heavily loaded
D 4
and when devices which hog the bus (such as rk07's) are present.
E 4
I 4
and when devices which hog the bus (such as RK07s) are present.
E 6
I 6
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/dev/tty[A-CE-I][0-7]" -compact
.It Pa /dev/tty[A-CE-I][0-7]
.It Pa /dev/ttyd[0-7]
.It Pa /dev/lp
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It dmf%d: NXM line %d.
No response from
.Tn UNIBUS
on a DMA transfer
within a timeout period.  This is often followed by a
.Tn UNIBUS
adapter
error.  This occurs most frequently when the
.Tn UNIBUS
is heavily loaded
and when devices which hog the bus (such as
.Tn RK07 Ns s )
are present.
E 6
E 4
It is not serious.
D 6
.PP
.BR "dmf%d: silo overflow" .
E 6
I 6
.Pp
.It dmf%d: silo overflow.
E 6
The character input silo overflowed
before it could be serviced.  This can happen if a hard error occurs
D 6
when the CPU is running with elevated priority, as the system will
E 6
I 6
when the
.Tn CPU
is running with elevated priority, as the system will
E 6
D 4
then print a message on the console with interrupts disabled.  If the
Berknet
is running on a
.I dh
line at high speed (e.g. 9600 baud), there is only 1/15th of a second of
buffering capacity in the silo, and overrun is possible.  This may
cause a few input characters to be lost to users and a network
packet is likely to be corrupted, but the network will recover.
E 4
I 4
then print a message on the console with interrupts disabled.
E 4
It is not serious.
D 6
.PP
D 4
.BR dmfsrint .
.br
.BR dmfsxint .
.br
.BR dmfdaint .
.br
E 4
I 4
.BR dmfsrint ,
.BR dmfsxint ,
.BR dmfdaint ,
E 4
.BR dmfdbint .
E 6
I 6
.Pp
.It dmfsrint, dmfsxint, dmfdaint, dmfdbint.
E 6
D 4
.br
.BR dmflint .
.br
E 4
One of the unsupported parts of the dmf interrupted; something
is amiss, check your interrupt vectors for a conflict with another
device.
I 5
D 6
.SH BUGS
E 6
I 6
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tty 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver appeared in
.Bx 4.2 .
.Sh BUGS
E 6
It should be possible to set the silo timeout with a configuration file option,
as the value is a trade-off between efficiency and response time for flow
control and character echo.
E 5
E 1
