h51264
s 00002/00002/00085
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:45:02 bostic 5 4
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00060/00047/00027
d D 6.2 91/03/27 23:51:36 cael 4 3
c  macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00001/00001/00073
d D 6.1 85/05/15 17:19:09 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00056/00044/00018
d D 5.1 85/05/15 17:19:00 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00062/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 17:18:52 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 4
I 4
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 5
I 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 5
E 4
.\"
D 4
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 4
I 4
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 4
.\"
D 2
.TH DN 4 12/2/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH DN 4 "27 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
D 4
.TH DN 4 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
dn \- dn-11 automatic calling unit interface
E 2
I 2
dn \- DN-11 autocall unit interface
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
device dn0 at uba0 csr 0175200 vector dnintr
E 2
I 2
.B "device dn0 at uba? csr 0160020 vector dnintr"
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
E 4
I 4
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt DN 4 vax
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm dn
.Nd
.Tn DN-11
autocall unit interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "device dn0 at uba? csr 0160020 vector dnintr"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
E 4
D 2
A dn-11 is a controller for an automatic calling unit (ACU).
With a dn-11, a call unit, and a modem
a computer may dial a telephone number and establish a data link.
Hardware supporting this interface includes the DEC DN11 and Able
Quadracall controllers working with either Bell 801 or Racal/Vadic
801 or 811 call units.
E 2
I 2
The
D 4
.I dn
device provides an interface through a DEC DN-11 (or equivalent
such as the Able Quadracall) to an auto-call unit (ACU).
E 4
I 4
.Nm dn
device provides an interface through a
.Tn DEC
.Tn DN-11
(or equivalent
such as the Able Quadracall) to an auto-call unit
.Pq Tn ACU .
E 4
To place an outgoing call one forks a sub-process which
opens the appropriate call unit file,
D 4
.I /dev/cua?
E 4
I 4
.Pa /dev/cua?
E 4
and writes the phone number on it.  The parent process
then opens the corresponding modem line
D 4
.IR /dev/cul? .
E 4
I 4
.Pa /dev/cul? .
E 4
When the connection has been
D 4
established, the open on the modem line,
.I /dev/cul?
E 4
I 4
established, the open on the modem line
.Pa /dev/cul?
E 4
will return and the process will be connected.
A timer is normally used to timeout the opening of 
the modem line.
E 2
D 4
.PP
E 4
I 4
.Pp
E 4
D 2
A dn-11 interface can control as many as four call units.
In normal operation
a data link is established by opening the file associated with
a call unit, sending the desired phone number in a single
.IR write (2)
operation, then opening the terminal line attached to the appropriate
outgoing modem.  If the phone call was successful and the remote host
presented a carrier signal, the open on the terminal line should be
successful.  At this point the call unit should be closed and a link
has been established.  This sequence is normally performed for the user
by one of 
.IR cu (1),
.IR uucp (1),
or
.IR dnd (8).
E 2
I 2
The codes for the phone numbers are:
E 2
D 4
.PP
D 2
Each controller/call unit pair has different programming 
characteristics which
impact the programmer; the dn-11 interface presents a
.I "raw interface"
rather than imbed local dependencies in the device driver.  For
example, the Racal/Vadic 811 call unit is multiplexed,
providing the user with the ability to place phones calls on as many as
64 separate phone lines from a single interface.  This multiplexing
is carried out based on the first two digits of the phone number presented
by the user (the first digit selects the modem's rack and modem type, while
the second digit selects the specific modem in the rack).
E 2
I 2
.nf
.ta \w'0-9    'u
0-9	dial 0-9
E 4
I 4
.Bl -column xxxx -offset indent
0-9	number to be dialed
E 4
*	dial * (`:' is a synonym)
#	dial # (`;' is a synonym)
\-	delay 20 milliseconds
D 4
<	end-of-number (`e' is a synonym)
E 4
I 4
<	end of phone number (`e' is a synonym)
E 4
=	delay for a second dial tone (`w' is a synonym)
f	force a hangup of any existing connection
D 4
.fi
E 2
.PP
D 2
The legal dn-11 dial codes are: \fB0-9\fP, \fB*\fP (\fB:\fP is a synonym),
\fB#\fP (\fB;\fP is a synonym), \fB=\fP (\fBw\fP is a synonym), and \fB\-\fP.
A phone number may optionally be terminated with a \fB<\fP or \fBe\fP.
Phone numbers may be no more than 40 characters long.
E 2
I 2
The entire telephone number must be presented in a single
.I write
system call.
E 2
.PP
E 4
I 4
.El
.Pp
The phone number to be dialed must be presented as one contiguous string.
.Pp
E 4
D 2
By convention /dev/cu[al]0 are connected to a 300 baud interface, while
/dev/cu[al]1 provides a 1200 baud interface.
E 2
I 2
By convention, even numbered call units are for 300 baud
modem lines, while odd numbered units are for 1200 baud lines.
For example,
D 4
.I /dev/cua0
E 4
I 4
.Pa /dev/cua0
E 4
is associated with a 300 baud modem line,
D 4
.IR /dev/cul0 ,
E 4
I 4
.Pa /dev/cul0 ,
E 4
while
D 4
.I /dev/cua1
E 4
I 4
.Pa /dev/cua1
E 4
is associated with a 1200 baud modem line,
D 4
.IR /dev/cul1 .
For devices such as the Quadracall which simulate multiple DN-11
E 4
I 4
.Pa /dev/cul1 .
For devices such as the Quadracall which simulate multiple
.Tn DN-11
E 4
units, the minor device indicates which outgoing modem to use.
E 2
D 4
.SH FILES
.DT
D 2
/dev/cua[0-9]	ACU interfaces
E 2
I 2
/dev/cua?	call units
E 2
.br
D 2
/dev/cul[0-9]	associated outgoing terminal line
E 2
I 2
/dev/cul?	associated modem lines
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
rv(4)
E 2
I 2
tip(1C)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
E 4
I 4
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/cul? -compact
.It Pa /dev/cua?
call units
.It Pa /dev/cul?
associated modem lines
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
E 4
Two error numbers are of interest at open time.
D 4
.TP 10
[EBUSY]
E 4
I 4
.Bl -tag -width EBUSYxx
.It Bq Er EBUSY
E 4
The dialer is in use.
D 4
.TP 
[ENXIO]
E 4
I 4
.It Bq Er ENXIO
E 4
The device doesn't exist, or there's no power to it.
I 4
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tip 1
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm
driver appeared in
.At v6 .
E 4
E 2
E 1
