h58790
s 00002/00002/00089
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:45:14 bostic 6 5
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00080/00038/00011
d D 6.3 91/03/27 23:51:37 cael 5 4
c  macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00010/00013/00039
d D 6.2 86/05/16 15:58:47 karels 4 3
c new silo handling
e
s 00001/00001/00051
d D 6.1 85/05/15 17:19:49 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00004/00005/00048
d D 5.1 85/05/15 17:19:42 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00053/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 17:19:34 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 5
I 5
D 6
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 6
I 6
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 6
E 5
.\"
D 5
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 5
I 5
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 5
.\"
D 2
.TH DZ 4 9/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH DZ 4 "27 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
D 5
.TH DZ 4 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
dz \- DZ-11 communications multiplexer
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
device dz0 at uba0 csr 0160100 vector dzrint dzxint
E 2
I 2
.B "device dz0 at uba0 csr 0160100 vector dzrint dzxint"
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 4
A dz-11 provides 8 communication lines with partial modem control,
E 4
I 4
A DZ11 provides 8 communication lines with partial modem control,
E 4
adequate for UNIX dialup use.
D 4
Each line attached to the DZ-11 communications multiplexer
E 4
I 4
Each line attached to the DZ11 communications multiplexer
E 4
behaves as described in
.IR tty (4)
and may be set to run at any of 16 speeds; see
.IR tty (4)
for the encoding.
.PP
Bit
.I i
of flags may be specified for a dz to say that a line is not properly
connected, and that the line should be treated as hard-wired with carrier
always present.  Thus specifying ``flags 0x04'' in the specification of dz0
would cause line tty02 to be treated in this way.
.PP
E 5
I 5
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt DZ 4 vax
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm dz
.Nd
.Tn DZ-11
multiplexer device interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "device dz0 at uba0 csr 0160100 vector dzrint dzxint"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A
.Tn DZ-11
provides 8 communication lines with partial modem control,
adequate for
.Tn UNIX
dialup use.
.Pp
An optional argument
.Ar flags
may be supplied with the device specification
in the config file indicating
that the line corresponding to
bit number
.Ar i
is not properly
connected, and should be treated as hard-wired with carrier
always present.  Thus specifying
.Ql flags 0x04
for
.Li dz0
would cause line
.Pa tty02
to be treated in this way.
.Pp
Normal I/O
control parameters for individual lines are managed by
.Xr ioctl 2
calls.
Line speeds may be initiated via
the
.Xr ttys 5
file,
.Xr stty 1
or
.Xr ifconfig 8
to name a few,
see
.Xr tty 4 .
.Pp
E 5
D 4
The dz driver normally uses its input silos
D 2
and polls for input at each clock tick (1/60'th of a
second) rather than taking an interrupt on each input character.
E 2
I 2
and polls for input at each clock tick (10 milliseconds)
rather than taking an interrupt on each input character.
E 4
I 4
The
D 5
.I dz
E 5
I 5
.Nm dz
E 5
driver monitors the rate of input on each board,
and switches between the use of character-at-a-time interrupts
and input silos.
While the silo is enabled during periods of high-speed input,
the driver polls for input 30 times per second.
E 4
E 2
D 5
.SH FILES
/dev/tty[0-9][0-9]
.br
/dev/ttyd[0-9a-f]		dialups
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tty(4)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
\fBdz%d: silo overflow\fR.  The 64 character input silo overflowed
E 5
I 5
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/tty[0-9][0-9]xx -compact
.It Pa /dev/tty[0-9][0-9]
.It Pa /dev/ttyd[0-9a-f]
dialups
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It dz%d: silo overflow .
The 64 character input silo overflowed
E 5
before it could be serviced.  This can happen if a hard error occurs
D 5
when the CPU is running with elevated priority, as the system will
E 5
I 5
when the
.Tn CPU
is running with elevated priority, as the system will
E 5
D 4
then print a message on the console with interrupts disabled.  If the
Berknet
D 2
.IR net (1)
E 2
is running on a
.I dz
line at high speed (e.g. 9600 baud), there is only 1/15th of a second of
buffering capacity in the silo, and overrun is possible.  This may
cause a few input characters to be lost to users and a network
packet is likely to be corrupted, but the network will recover.
E 4
I 4
then print a message on the console with interrupts disabled.
E 4
It is not serious.
I 5
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr stty 1 ,
.Xr tty 4 ,
.Xr ttys 5 ,
.Xr getty 8
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm
driver appeared in
.At 32v .
E 5
E 1
