h27074
s 00002/00002/00154
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:46:54 bostic 9 8
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00076/00038/00080
d D 6.6 91/03/27 23:51:48 cael 8 7
c  macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00001/00001/00117
d D 6.5 90/06/23 16:36:33 trent 7 6
c changed /usr/adm/messages to /var/log/messages
e
s 00001/00011/00117
d D 6.4 89/02/14 17:23:37 bostic 6 5
c remove subsection notation
e
s 00009/00004/00119
d D 6.3 86/06/01 00:45:32 mis 5 4
c corrected list of supported devices.
e
s 00023/00010/00100
d D 6.2 86/05/16 15:55:21 karels 4 3
c updates
e
s 00001/00001/00109
d D 6.1 85/05/15 17:22:18 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00094/00007/00016
d D 5.1 85/05/15 17:22:07 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00023/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 17:22:00 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 8
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 8
I 8
D 9
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 9
I 9
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 9
E 8
.\"
D 8
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 8
I 8
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 8
.\"
D 2
.TH INTRO 4 4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH INTRO 4 "27 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
D 8
.TH INTRO 4 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
intro \- introduction to special files
E 2
I 2
intro \- introduction to special files and hardware support
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
E 8
I 8
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt INTRO 4 vax
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm intro
.Nd introduction to special files and hardware support
.Sh DESCRIPTION
E 8
D 2
This section describes the special files and related driver functions
available on the system.
In this section the SYNOPSIS section gives a sample specification
of the related drivers for use in a system description to the
E 2
I 2
This section describes the special files, related driver functions,
and networking support
available in the system.
D 8
In this part of the manual, the SYNOPSIS section of
E 8
I 8
In this part of the manual, the
.Tn SYNOPSIS
section of
E 8
each configurable device gives a sample specification
for use in constructing a system description for the
E 2
D 8
.IR config (8)
E 8
I 8
.Xr config 8
E 8
program.
D 8
The DIAGNOSTICS section lists messages which may appear on the console
E 8
I 8
The
.Tn DIAGNOSTICS
section lists messages which may appear on the console
E 8
D 4
and in the system error log
E 4
I 4
and/or in the system error log
E 4
D 2
/usr/adm/messages
E 2
I 2
D 7
.I /usr/adm/messages
E 7
I 7
D 8
.I /var/log/messages
E 8
I 8
.Pa /var/log/messages
E 8
E 7
E 2
D 4
due to errors in device operation.
E 4
I 4
due to errors in device operation;
see
D 8
.IR syslogd (8)
E 8
I 8
.Xr syslogd 8
E 8
for more information.
E 4
I 2
D 6
.PP
This section contains both devices
which may be configured into the system, ``4'' entries,
and network related information,
``4N'', ``4P'', and ``4F'' entries;
The networking support is introduced in
.IR intro (4N).
E 6
D 8
.SH "VAX DEVICE SUPPORT"
This section describes the hardware supported on the DEC VAX-11.
E 8
I 8
.Sh VAX DEVICE SUPPORT
This section describes the hardware supported on the
.Tn DEC
.Tn VAX-11 .
E 8
Software support for these devices comes in two forms.  A hardware
device may be supported with a character or block
D 8
.IR "device driver" ,
E 8
I 8
.Em device driver ,
E 8
or it may be used within the networking subsystem and have a
D 8
.IR "network interface driver" .
E 8
I 8
.Em network interface driver .
E 8
Block and character devices are accessed through files in the file
D 8
system of a special type; c.f.
.IR mknod (8).
E 8
I 8
system of a special type; see
.Xr physio 4
and
.Xr mknod 8 .
E 8
Network interfaces are indirectly accessed through the interprocess
communication facilities provided by the system; see
D 8
.IR socket (2).
.PP
E 8
I 8
.Xr socket 2 .
.Pp
E 8
A hardware device is identified to the system at configuration time
and the appropriate device or network interface driver is then compiled
into the system.  When the resultant system is booted, the
autoconfiguration facilities in the system probe for the device
D 4
on either the UNIBUS or MASSBUS and, if found, enable the software
E 4
I 4
D 8
on either the UNIBUS (or Q-bus) or MASSBUS and, if found, enable the software
E 4
support for it.  If a UNIBUS device does not respond at autoconfiguration
E 8
I 8
on either the
.Tn UNIBUS
(or
.Tn Q-bus )
or
.Tn MASSBUS
and, if found, enable the software
support for it.  If a
.Tn UNIBUS
device does not respond at autoconfiguration
E 8
time it is not accessible at any time afterwards.  To
D 8
enable a UNIBUS device which did not autoconfigure, the system will have to
E 8
I 8
enable a
.Tn UNIBUS
device which did not autoconfigure, the system will have to
E 8
be rebooted.  If a
D 8
MASSBUS device comes ``on-line'' after the autoconfiguration sequence
E 8
I 8
.Tn MASSBUS
device comes
.Dq on-line
after the autoconfiguration sequence
E 8
it will be dynamically autoconfigured into the running system.
D 8
.PP
E 8
I 8
.Pp
E 8
The autoconfiguration system is described in
D 8
.IR autoconf (4).
E 8
I 8
.Xr autoconf 4 .
E 8
D 4
VAX specific device support is described in ``4V'' entries.
E 4
A list of the supported devices is given below.
E 2
D 8
.SH SEE ALSO
I 2
D 6
intro(4),
intro(4N),
autoconf(4),
E 2
D 5
config(8)
E 5
I 5
config(8).
E 6
I 6
intro(4), netintro(4), autoconf(4), config(8).
E 6
.PP
Building 4.3BSD UNIX Systems with \fIConfig\fP (SMM:2)
E 5
I 2
.SH "LIST OF DEVICES"
E 8
I 8
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr autoconf 4 ,
.Xr config 8 .
.Rs
.%T "Building 4.3 BSD UNIX Systems with Config"
.%B SMM
.%N 2
.Re
.Sh LIST OF DEVICES
E 8
The devices listed below are supported in this incarnation of
D 5
the system.  Devices are indicated by their functional interface.
E 5
I 5
the system.  Pseudo-devices are not listed.
Devices are indicated by their functional interface.
E 5
If second vendor products provide functionally identical interfaces
they should be usable with the supplied software.
D 4
(\fBBeware however that we promise the software works
E 4
I 4
D 8
(\fBBeware, however, that we promise the software works
E 4
ONLY with the hardware indicated on the appropriate manual page.\fP)
E 8
I 8
.Bf -symbolic
Beware,
however, that we promise the software works
ONLY with the hardware indicated on the appropriate manual page.
.Ef
E 8
I 4
Occasionally, new devices of a similar type may be added
simply by creating appropriate table entries in the driver.
E 4
D 8
.sp
.ta 1.0i
.nf
E 8
I 8
.Pp
.Bl -column tmscp -offset indent
E 8
acc	ACC LH/DH IMP communications interface
ad	Data translation A/D interface
css	DEC IMP-11A communications interface
D 4
ct	C/A/T phototypesetter
E 4
I 4
crl	VAX 8600, 8650 console RL02 disk
ct	C/A/T or APS phototypesetter
ddn	ACC ACP625 DDN Standard Mode X.25 IMP interface
de	DEC DEUNA 10Mb/s Ethernet controller
E 4
dh	DH-11 emulators, terminal multiplexor
I 4
dhu	DHU-11 terminal multiplexor
E 4
dmc	DEC DMC-11/DMR-11 point-to-point communications device
D 4
dmf	DEC DMF-32 terminal multiplexor
E 4
I 4
dmf	DEC DMF-32 terminal multiplexor and parallel printer interface
dmz	DEC DMZ-32 terminal multiplexor
E 4
dn	DEC DN-11 autodialer interface
dz	DZ-11 terminal multiplexor
ec	3Com 10Mb/s Ethernet controller
en	Xerox 3Mb/s Ethernet controller (obsolete)
I 4
ex	Excelan 10Mb/s Ethernet controller
E 4
D 5
kg	KL-11/DL-11W line clock
E 5
fl	VAX-11/780 console floppy interface
I 4
hdh	ACC IF-11/HDH IMP interface
E 4
hk	RK6-11/RK06 and RK07 moving head disk
hp	MASSBUS disk interface (with RP06, RM03, RM05, etc.)
ht	TM03 MASSBUS tape drive interface (with TE-16, TU-45, TU-77)
hy	DR-11B or GI-13 interface to an NSC Hyperchannel
ik	Ikonas frame buffer graphics device interface
D 4
il	Interlan 10Mb/s Ethernet controller
E 4
I 4
il	Interlan 1010, 1010A 10Mb/s Ethernet controller
D 5
il	Interlan NP-100 10Mb/s Ethernet controller
E 5
I 5
ix	Interlan NP-100 10Mb/s Ethernet controller
kg	KL-11/DL-11W line clock
E 5
E 4
lp	LP-11 parallel line printer interface
mt	TM78 MASSBUS tape drive interface
I 5
np	Interlan NP-100 10Mb/s Ethernet controller (intelligent mode)
E 5
pcl	DEC PCL-11 communications interface
ps	Evans and Sutherland Picture System 2 graphics interface
I 5
qe	DEC DEQNA Q-bus 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface
E 5
rx	DEC RX02 floppy interface
tm	TM-11/TE-10 tape drive interface
I 4
tmscp	TMSCP-compatible tape controllers (e.g., TU81, TK50)
E 4
ts	TS-11 tape drive interface
tu	VAX-11/730 TU58 console cassette interface
uda	DEC UDA-50 disk controller
un	DR-11W interface to Ungermann-Bass
D 4
up	Emulex SC-21V UNIBUS disk controller
E 4
I 4
up	Emulex SC-21V, SC-31 UNIBUS disk controller
E 4
ut	UNIBUS TU-45 tape drive interface
uu	TU58 dual cassette drive interface (DL11)
va	Benson-Varian printer/plotter interface
vp	Versatec printer/plotter interface
D 4
vv	Proteon proNET 10Mb/s ring network interface
E 4
I 4
vv	Proteon proNET 10Mb/s and 80Mb/s ring network interface
I 8
.El
.Sh HISTORY
The section 4
.Nm intro
appeared in
.Bx 4.1 .
E 8
E 4
E 2
E 1
