.\"
.\" $Id: gated.8,v 1.21 1993/10/28 20:29:54 jch Exp $
.\"
.\" %(Copyright.header)
.\"
.TH GATED 8 "$Date: 1993/10/28 20:29:54 $ UTC" "%#(RELEASE)" "Cornell GateDaemon Project"
.SH NAME
gated \- gateway routing daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gated
.RB [ \-c ]
.RB [ \-C ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-N ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR trace_options ]
.RB [ \-f
.IR config_file ]
.RI [ trace_file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Gated
is a routing daemon that handles multiple routing protocols and replaces
routed(8), egpup(8), and any routing daemon that
speaks the HELLO routing protocol.
.B Gated
currently handles the RIP, BGP, EGP,
HELLO, and OSPF routing protocols.  The
.B gated
process can be configured to perform all
routing protocols or any 
combination of the five.
.PP
The command-line options are:
.IP -c
Specifies that the configuration file will be parsed for syntax errors
and then 
.B gated
will exit, if there were no errors, 
.B gated
will leave a
dump file in @(_path_dump).  
.B Gated
does not need to be run as the
super user to use the -c option but it may not be possible to read the
kernel routing table and interface configuration if not run as super
user.  The -c option implies -tgeneral,kernel,nostamp.  All traceoption
and tracefile clauses in the configuration file will be ignored.
.IP -C
Specifies that the configuration file will just be parsed for syntax
errors.  
.B Gated
will exit with a status 1 if there were any errors and 0
if there were not.  
.B Gated
does not need to be run as the super user to
use the -C option but it may not be possible to read the kernel routing
table and interface configuration if not run as super user.  The -c
option implies -tnostamp.
.IP -n
Specifies that 
.B gated
will not modify the kernel's
routing table.  This is used for testing 
.B gated
configurations with actual routing data.
.IP -N
Specifies that 
.B gated
will not daemonize.
Normally, if tracing to stderr is
not specified 
.B gated
will daemonize if
the parent process ID is not 1.  This
allows the use of an /etc/inittab-like
method of invoking 
.B gated
that does not
have a PID of 1.
.IP -t
Specifies a comma separated list of
trace options to be enabled on startup.
If no flags are specified, "general" is
assumed.  No space is allowed
between this option and it's arguments.
.sp
This option must be used to trace events
that take place before the config file
is parsed, such as determining the
interface configuration and reading
routes from the kernel.
.pp
See
.BR gated-config (5)
for valid trace options and a more detailed
explaination of tracing.
.IP -f
Use an alternate config file.
By default,
.B gated
uses
.IR @(_path_config) .
.PP
If a trace file is specified on the command line, or no trace flags
are specified on the command line, 
.B gated
detaches from the terminal
and runs in the background.  If trace flags are
specified without specifying a trace file, 
.B gated
assumes that tracing is desired to stderr and
remains in the foreground.
.SH "SIGNAL PROCESSING"
.PP
.B Gated
catches the following signals and does special processing.
.PD 1.5v
.IP SIGHUP: 16
Re-read configuration.
.sp
A SIGHUP causes 
.B gated
to reread the configuration
file.  
.B Gated
first performs a clean-up of all
allocated policy structures.  All BGP and EGP peers
are flagged for deletion and the configuration file is
re-parsed. 
.sp
If the re-parse is successful, any BGP and EGP peers
that are no longer in the configuration are shut down,
and new peers are started.  
.B Gated
attempts to
determine if changes to existing peers require a
shutdown and restart.
.sp
It should also be possible to enable/disable any
protocol without restarting 
.BT gated .
.sp
Reconfiguration is currently disabled when OSPF
is enabled, this will hopefully be fixed in a
future release.
.IP SIGINT:
Snap-shot of current state.
.sp
The current state of all 
.B gated
tasks, timers,
protocols and tables are written to
@(_path_dump).
.sp
On systems supporting fork(), this is done by
forking a subprocess to dump the table information so
as not to impact 
.BR gated 's
routing functions.  On
systems where memory management does not support
copy-on-write, this will cause the 
.B gated
address space
to be duplicated; this may be cause a noticeable impact
on the system.  On system not supporting fork(), the
main process immediately processes the dump, which may
impact 
.BR gated 's
routing functions.
.IP SIGTERM:
Graceful shutdown.
.sp
On receipt of a SIGTERM, 
.B gated
attempts a graceful
shutdown.  All tasks and protocols are asked to
shutdown.  Most will terminate immediately, the
exception being EGP peers which wait for confirmation.
It may be necessary to repeat the SIGTERM once or
twice if it this process takes too long.
.sp
All protocol routes are removed from the
kernel's routing table on receipt of a SIGTERM.
Interface routes, routes with RTF_STATIC set (from
the route command where supported) and static routes
specifying `retain' will remain.  To terminate 
.B gated
with the exterior routes intact, use SIGKILL or
.IP SIGUSR1:
Toggle tracing.
.sp
On receipt of a SIGUSR1, 
.B gated
will close the trace
file.  A subsequent SIGUSR1 will cause it to be
reopened.  This will allow the file to be moved
regularly.
.sp
It is not possible to use SIGUSR1 if a trace file has
not been specified, or tracing is being performed to
stderr.
.IP SIGUSR2:
Check for interface changes.
.sp
On receipt of a SIGUSR2, 
.B gated
will rescan the kernel
interface list looking for changes.
.PD
.SH AUTHORS
Mark Fedor <fedor@psi.com>,
Jeffrey C Honig <jch@gated.cornell.edu>,
Rob Coltun <rcoltun@ni.umd.edu>
and
Dennis Ferguson <dennis@ans.net>
.SH SEE ALSO
gated-config(5),
gated-copyright(8),
@(GDC)(8),
arp(8),
ifconfig(8),
netstat(8),
@(RIPQUERY)(8),
routed(8)
.PP
.PD 0
.IP RFC\ 891 16
DCN Local-Network Protocols (HELLO)
.IP RFC\ 904
Exterior Gateway Protocol Formal Specification
.IP RFC\ 1058
Routing Information Protocol
.IP RFC\ 1163
A Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)
.IP RFC\ 1164
Application of the Border Gateway Protocol in the Internet
.IP RFC\ 1247
OSPF Specification, Version 2
.PD
.SH COPYRIGHT INFORMATION
%(Copyright_short)
.PP
%(Copyright_short.OSPF)
.PP
%(Copyright_short.ISIS)
.\"
.\" %(Copyright)
.\"
