.\"
.\" $Id: gdc.8,v 1.6 1994/01/13 17:48:13 jch Exp $
.\"
.\" %(Copyright.header)
.\"
.TH GDC 8 "$Date: 1994/01/13 17:48:13 $ UTC" "%#(RELEASE)" "Cornell GateDaemon Project"
.SH NAME
.B gdc
\- operational user interface for
.B gated (8)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gdc
.RB [ \-q ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR coresize ]
.RB [ \-f 
.IR filesize ]
.RB [ \-m 
.IR datasize ]
.RB [ \-s 
.IR stacksize ]
.RB [ \-t 
.IR seconds ]
.I command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Gdc
provides a user\-oriented interface for the operation of the
.I gated (8)
routing daemon.  It provides support for starting and
stopping the daemon, for the delivery of signals to manipulate the
daemon when it is operating, for the maintenance and syntax checking
of configuration files, and for the production and removal of state dumps
and core dumps.
.B Gdc
can reliably determine 
.IR gated 's
running state and produces a reliable
exit status when errors occur, making it advantageous for use in
shell scripts which manipulate
.IR gated .
Commands executed using
.B gdc
and, optionally, error messages produced by the execution of those
commands, are logged via the same
.IR syslogd (8)
facility which
.I gated
itself uses, providing an audit trail of operations performed on
the daemon.
.PP
If installed as a setuid root program
.B gdc
will allow non-root users who are members of a trusted group (by
default the
.B gdmaint
group) to manipulate the routing daemon while denying access
to others.  The name of the user is logged along via
.IR syslogd (8)
along with an indication of each command executed, for audit purposes.
.PP
The command-line options are:
.IP -n
Run without changing the kernel forwarding table.  Useful for testing,
and when operating as a route server which does no forwarding.
.IP -q
Run quietly.  With this option informational messages which are normally
printed to the standard output are suppressed and error messages are
logged via
.IR syslogd (8)
instead of being printed to the standard error output.  This is often
convenient when running
.B gdc
from a shell script.
.IP -t
Specifies the time in seconds which
.B gdc
will spend waiting for
.I gated
to complete certain operations, in particular at termination and
startup.  By default this value is set to 10 seconds.
.PP
These additional command-line options may be present, depending on the
options used to compile
.IR gdc :
.IP -c
Sets the maximum size of a core dump a
.I gated
started with
.B gdc
will produce.  Useful on systems where the default maximum core dump
size is too small for
.I gated
to produce a full core dump on errors.
.IP -f
Sets the maximum file size a
.I gated
started with
.B gdc
will produce.  Useful on systems where the default maximum file dump
size is too small for
.I gated
to produce a full state dump when requested.
.IP -m
Sets the maximum size of the data segment of a
.I gated
started with
.BR gdc .
Useful on systems where the default data segment
size is too small for
.I gated
to run.
.IP -s
Sets the maximum size of stack of a
.I gated
started with
.BR gdc .
Useful on systems where the default maximum stack size
is too small for
.I gated
to run.
.PP
The following commands cause signals to be delivered to
.I gated
for various purpose:
.IP COREDUMP 10
Sends an abort signal to
.IR gated ,
causing it to terminate with a core dump.
.IP dump 10
Signal 
.I gated
to dump its current state into the
file
.B @(_path_dump) .
.IP interface 10
Signal
.I gated
to recheck the interface configuration.
.I gated
normally does this periodically in any event, but the facility can be
used to force the daemon to check interface status immediately when
changes are known to have occured.
.IP KILL 10
Cause
.I gated
to terminate ungracefully.  Normally useful when the daemon has hung.
.IP reconfig 10
Signal
.I gated
to reread its configuration file, reconfiguring its current state as
appropriate.
.IP term 10
Signal
.I gated
to terminate after shutting down all operating routing protocols gracefully.
Executing this command a second time should cause 
.I gated
to terminate
even if some protocols have not yet fully shut down.
.IP toggletrace 10
If
.I gated
is currently tracing to a file, cause tracing to be suspended and
the trace file to be closed.  If
.I gated
tracing is current suspended, cause the trace file to be reopenned and
tracing initiated.  This is useful for moving trace files.
.PP
By default
.I gated
obtains its configuration from a file normally named
.BR @(_path_config) .
The
.B gdc
program also maintains several other versions of the configuration
file, in particular named:
.IP \fB@(_path_config)+\fP 10
The
.I new
configuration file.  When
.B gdc
is requested to install a new configuration file, this file is
renamed
.BR @(_path_config) .
.IP \fB@(_path_config)\-\fP 10
The
.I old
configuration file.  When
.B gdc
is requested to install a new configuration file, the previous
.B @(_path_config)
is renamed to this name.
.IP \fB@(_path_config)\-\-\fP 10
The \fIreally old\fP configuration file.
.B Gdc
retains the previous
.I old
configuration file under this name.
.PP
The following commands perform operations related to configuration files:
.IP checkconf 10
Check
.B @(_path_config)
for syntax errors.  This is usefully done after changes to the configuration
file but before sending a
.B reconfig
signal to the currently running
.IR gated ,
to ensure that there are no errors in the configuration which would cause
the running
.I gated
to terminate on reconfiguration.  When this command is used,
.B gdc
issues an informational message indicating whether there were parse
errors or not, and if so saves the error output in a file for inspection.
.IP checknew 10
Like
.B checkconf
except that the
.I new
configuration file,
.BR @(_path_config)+ ,
is checked instead.
.IP newconf 10
Move the
.B @(_path_config)+
file into place as
.BR @(_path_config) ,
retaining the older versions of the file as described above.
.B Gdc
will decline to do anything when given this command if the
.I new
configuration file doesn't exist or otherwise looks suspect.
.IP backout 10
Rotate the configuration files in the
.I newer
direction, in effect moving the
.I old
configuration file to
.BR @(_path_config) .
The command will decline to perform the operation if
.B @(_path_config)\-
doesn't exist or is zero length, or if the operation would delete
an existing, non-zero length
.B @(_path_config)+
file.
.IP BACKOUT 10
Perform a
.B backout
operation even if
.B @(_path_config)+
exists and is of non-zero length.
.IP modeconf 10
Set all configuration files to mode 664, owner root, group gdmaint.  This
allows a trusted non-root user to modify the configuration files.
.IP createconf 10
If
.B @(_path_config)+
does not exist, create a zero length file with the file mode set to
664, owner root, group gdmaint.  This allows a trusted non-root user
to install a new configuration file.
.PP
The following commands provide support for starting and stopping
.IR gated ,
and for determining its running state:
.IP running 10
Determine if
.I gated
is currently running.  This is done by checking to see if
.I gated
has a lock on the file containing its pid, if the pid in the file
is sensible and if there is a running process with that pid.  Exits
with zero status if
.I gated
is running, non-zero otherwise.
.IP start 10
Start
.IR gated .
The command returns an error if
.I gated
is already running.  Otherwise it executes the
.I gated
binary and waits for up to the delay interval (10 seconds by default,
as set with the
.B -t
option otherwise) until the newly started process obtains a lock on the
pid file.  A non-zero exit status is returned if an error is detected
while executing the binary, or if a lock is not obtained on the pid
file within the specified wait time.
.IP stop 10
Stop
.IR gated ,
gracefully if possible, ungracefully if not.  The command returns
an error (with non-zero exit status) if
.I gated
is not currently running.  Otherwise it sends a terminate signal
to
.I gated
and waits for up to the delay interval (10 seconds by default, as specified
with the
.B -t
option otherwise) for the process to exit.  Should
.I gated
fail to exit within the delay interval it is then signaled again with
a second terminate signal.  Should it fail to exit by the end of the second
delay interval it is signalled for a third time with a kill signal.  This
should force immediate termination unless something is very broken.  The
command terminates with zero exit status when it detects that
.I gated
has terminated, non-zero otherwise.
.IP restart 10
If
.I gated
is running it is terminated via the same procedure as is used for
the
.B stop
command above.  When the previous
.I gated
terminates, or if it was not running prior to command execution,
a new
.I gated
process is executed using the procedures described for the
.B start
command above.  A non-zero exit status is returned if any
step in this procedure appears to have failed.
.PP
The following commands allow the removal of files created by
the execution of some of the commands above:
.IP rmcore 10
Removes any existing
.I gated
core dump file.
.IP rmdump 10
Removes any existing
.I gated
state dump file.
.IP rmparse 10
Removes the parse error file generated when a
.B checkconf
or
.B checknew
command is executed and syntax errors are encountered in the
configuration file being checked.
.PD
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B @(SBINDIR)/gated
the
.I gated
binary
.TP
.B @(_path_config)
current 
.I gated
configuration file
.TP
.B @(_path_config)+
newer configuration file
.TP
.B @(_path_config)\-
older configuration file
.TP
.B @(_path_config)\-\-
much older configuration file
.TP
.B @(_path_pid)
where 
.I gated
stores its pid
.TP
.B @(_path_dump)
.IR gated 's
state dump file
.TP
.B @(_path_dumpdir)/%s_parse
where config file parse errors go
.TP
.B @(_path_dumpdir)
where 
.I gated
drops its core file
.PD
.SH AUTHOR
Dennis Ferguson <dennis@ans.net>
.SH SEE ALSO
gated(8),
gated-config(5),
gated-copyright(8),
ripquery(8),
syslog(8)
.SH BUGS
Many commands only work when
.I gated
is installed in the system directory it was configured with.
.PP
There is not yet any way to tell
.B gdc
about systems which name their core dump other than
.B core
.RB ( core.gated
is a less common possibility).
.PP
.PD
.SH COPYRIGHT INFORMATION
%(Copyright_short)
.\"
.\" %(Copyright)
.\"
