.\"
.\" $Id: gated.8,v 1.21 1993/10/28 20:29:54 jch Exp $
.\"
.\" %(Copyright.header)
.\"
.TH ospf_monitor 8 "$Date$" "%#(RELEASE)" "Cornell GatedDaemon Project"

.SH NAME
.B ospf_monitor
\- monitor OSPF gateways
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ospf_monitor
.I mon_db_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use the 
.B ospf_monitor
command to query OSPF routers.
The
.B ospf_monitor
command operates in interactive mode.
It allows the
user to query the various OSPF routers to provide detailed information
on IO statistics, error logs, link-state data bases, AS external data
bases,
the OSPF routing table, configured OSPF interfaces, and OSPF neighbors.
.PP
.I Mon_db_file
is the complete pathname of a database composed of 
records configuring destinations for 
.B ospf_monitor
remote commands.
Each destination record is a single-line entry which lists the
destination
IP address, the destination hostname, and an OSPF authentication key (if
authentication is activated by the destination).
Since authentication
keys
may be present in the destination records, it is recommended that
general
access to this database be restricted.
.PP
Refer to RFC-1247 (OSPF Specification, version 2) for details about OSPF
database and packet formats.
.SH "COMMANDS"
Upon entering interactive mode, 
.B ospf_monitor
presents the
\f4'[ # ] dest command params >'\f1 prompt, at which you can enter any
of 
.BR ospf_monitor 's
interactive commands.
Interactive commands can
be
interrupted at any time via a keyboard interrupt.
Note that the command
line length must be less than 200 characters.
.SS "Local Commands"
.IP ?
Display all local commands and their functions.
.IP ?R
Display all remote commands and their functions.
.IP d
Display all configured destinations.
This command displays
.IR dest_index ,
the IP address, and the hostname of all potential
.B ospf_monitor
command destinations configured in 
.IR mon_db_file .
.IP h
Display the command history buffer showing the last 30 interactive
commands.
.IP x
Exit the 
.B ospf_monitor
program.
.IP "@ \fIremote_command\fP"
Send 
.I remote_command
to the same (previous) destination.
.IP "@\fIdest_index\fP \fIremote_command\fP"
Send
.I remote_command
to configured destination
.IR dest_index .
.IP "F \fIfilename\fP"
Send all 
.B ospf_monitor
output to
.IR filename .
.IP S
Send all 
.B ospf_monitor
output to stdout.
.SS "Remote Commands"
.IP "a \fIarea_id\fP \fItype\fP \fIls_id\fP \fIadv_rtr\fP"
Display link state advertisement.
.I area_id
is the OSPF area for
which the query is directed.
.I adv_rtr
is currently unused.
.I type
specifies the type of advertisement to request and should be
specified as follows:
.RS
.IP "1 -"
Request the router links advertisements.
They describe
the collected states of the router's interfaces.
For this
type of request, the
.I ls_id
field should be set to
the originating router's Router ID.
.IP "2 -"
Request the network links advertisements.
They describe
the set of routers attached to the network.
For this
type of request, the
.I ls_id
field should be set to
the IP interface address of the network's Designated Router.
.IP "3 -"
Request the summary link advertisements describing routes
to networks.
They describe inter-area routes, and enable
the condensation of routing information at area borders.
For this type of request, the
.I ls_id
field should be set
to the destination network's IP address.
.IP "4 -"
Request the summary link advertisements describing routes
to AS boundary routers.
They describe inter-area routes, and
enable the condensation of routing information at area borders.
For this type of request, the
.I ls_id
field should be set
to the Router ID of the described AS boundary router.
.IP "5 -"
Request the AS external link advertisements.
They describe
routes to destinations external to the Autonomous System.
For this type of request, the
.I ls_id
field should be set
to the destination network's IP address.
.RE
.IP "c"
Display cumulative log.
This log includes input/output statistics for
monitor request, hello, data base description, link-state request,
link-state
update, and link-state ack packets.
Area statistics are provided which
describe the total number of routing neighbors and number of active OSPF
interfaces.
Routing table statistics are summarized and reported as
the number of intra-area routes, inter-area routes, and AS external data
base entries.
.IP "e"
Display cumulative errors.
This log reports the various error
conditions
which can occur between OSPF routing neighbors and shows the number
of occurrences for each.
.IP "l \fIretrans\fP"
Display the link-state database (except for ASE's).
This table
describes the
routers and networks making up the AS.
If
.I retrans
is non-zero,
the retransmit list of neighbors held by this lsdb structure will be
printed.
.IP "A \fIretrans\fP"
Display the AS external data base entries.
This table reports the
advertising
router, forwarding address, age, length, sequence number, type, and
metric
for each AS external route.
If
.I retrans
is non-zero,
the retransmit list of neighbors held by this lsdb structure will be
printed.
.IP "o"
Display the OSPF routing table.
This table reports the AS border
routes, area
border routes, summary AS border routes, and networks currently managed
via
OSPF.
.IP "I"
Display all interfaces.
This report shows all interfaces configured for
OSPF.
Information reported includes the area, interface IP address, interface
type, interface state, cost, priority, and the IP address of the DR and
BDR for
the network.
.IP "N"
Display all OSPF routing neighbors.
Information reported includes
the area, local interface address, router ID, neighbor IP address,
state,
and mode.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gated(8),
@(GDC)(8),
@(RIPQUERY)(8)
.PP
.PD 0
.IP RFC\ 1247 16
OSPF Specification, Version 2.
.PD
.SH COPYRIGHT INFORMATION
%(Copyright_short)
.PP
%(Copyright_short.OSPF)
.\"
.\" %(Copyright)
.\"
