.\"
.\" $Id: ripquery.8,v 1.13 1993/10/31 20:39:55 jch Exp $
.\"
.\" %(Copyright.header)
.\"
.TH RIPQUERY 8 "$Date: 1993/10/31 20:39:55 $ UTC" "%#(RELEASE)" "Cornell GateDaemon Project"
.SH NAME
ripquery \- query RIP gateways
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ripquery
.RB [ \-1 ]
.RB [ \-2 ]
.RB [ \-a
.IR authkey ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-w
.IR time ]
.I gateway \&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ripquery
is used to request all routes known by a RIP gateway by sending a RIP
request or POLL command.  The routing information in any routing packets
returned is displayed numerically and symbolically.
.B Ripquery
is intended to be used as a tool for debugging gateways, not for network
management.  SNMP is the preferred protocol for network management.
.PP
.B Ripquery
by default uses the RIP POLL command, which is an undocumented extension
to the RIP specification supported by
.I routed
on SunOS 3.x and later and by
.I gated
1.4 and later.
The RIP POLL command is preferred over the RIP REQUEST
command because it is not subject to Split Horizon and/or Poisoned
Reverse.  See the RIP RFC for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-1\fP
Send the query as a version 1 packet.
.IP \fB\-2\fP
Send the query as a version 2 packet (default).
.IP \fB\-a\fP
Specifies the authentication password to use for queries.  If
specified, an authentication type of SIMPLE will be used, otherwise
the default is an authentication type of NONE.  Authentication fields
in incoming packets will be displayed, but not validated.
.IP \fB\-n\fP
Prevents the address of the responding host from being
looked up to determine the symbolic name.
.IP \fB\-p\fP
Uses the RIP POLL command to request information from the routing table. 
This is the default, but is an undocumented extension supported only by
some versions of SunOS 3.x and later versions of
.IR gated .
If there is no response to the RIP POLL command, the RIP REQUEST command
is tried.
.I Gated
responds to a POLL command with all the routes learned via RIP.
.IP \fB\-r\fP
Used the RIP REQUEST command to request information from the gateway's
routing table.  Unlike the RIP POLL command, all gateways should support
the RIP REQUEST.  If there is no response to the RIP REQUEST command,
the RIP POLL command is tried.
.I Gated
responds to a REQUEST command with all the routes he anounces out the
specified interface.  Due to limitations in the UDP interface, on
systems based on BSD 4.3 Reno or earlier, REQUESTs respond about the
interface used to route packets back to the sender.  This can be
avoided by running
.B ripquery
on the host being queried.
.IP \fB\-v\fP
Version information about
.B ripquery
is displayed before querying the gateways.
.IP \fB\-w\fP
Specifies the time in seconds to wait for the initial response from a gateway. 
The default value is 5 seconds.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SH "SEE ALSO"
routed(8),
gated(8),
gated-config(5),
gated-copyright(8),
gdc(8)
.br
.nf
RFC1058 - Routing Information Protocol
.fi
.SH BUGS
Some versions of Unix do not allow looking up the symbolic name of a
subnet.
.SH COPYRIGHT INFORMATION
%(Copyright_short)
.\"
.\" %(Copyright)
.\"
