/*  
 * Mach Operating System
 * Copyright (c) 1989 Carnegie-Mellon University
 * All rights reserved.  The CMU software License Agreement specifies
 * the terms and conditions for use and redistribution.
 */
/* 
 * HISTORY
 * $Log:	MACH_CHANGES,v $
 * Revision 2.2  89/02/26  13:55:47  gm0w
 * 	Changes for cleanup.
 * 
 * 16-Feb-89  Robert Baron (rvb) at Carnegie-Mellon University
 *	Compared mdec/ with bsd4.3
 *
 */

	FILES CHANGED IN MACH
mdec/Makefile
mdec/hpboot.s

	FILES NEW IN MACH
mdec/88boot
mdec/88boot.s
mdec/88hack.s
mdec/BOOTBI
mdec/BOOTUV
mdec/MACH
mdec/avieboot
mdec/avieboot.s
mdec/copyfloppy.s
mdec/hpboot.s.rom
mdec/r6boot
mdec/r6boot.s
mdec/rqboot.s
mdec/uvboot

	FILE ONLY IN BSD
mdec/a.out

mdec/b.out differ
mdec/hpboot differ
mdec/installboot differ

mdec/hkboot are identical
mdec/hkboot.s are identical
mdec/htboot are identical
mdec/htboot.s are identical
mdec/httoggle are identical
mdec/httoggle.s are identical
mdec/installboot.c are identical
mdec/mtboot are identical
mdec/mtboot.s are identical
mdec/mttoggle are identical
mdec/mttoggle.s are identical
mdec/noboot are identical
mdec/raboot are identical
mdec/raboot.s are identical
mdec/rlboot are identical
mdec/rlboot.s are identical
mdec/tmboot are identical
mdec/tmboot.s are identical
mdec/tmtoggle are identical
mdec/tmtoggle.s are identical
mdec/tsboot are identical
mdec/tsboot.s are identical
mdec/tstoggle are identical
mdec/tstoggle.s are identical
mdec/tuboot are identical
mdec/tuboot.s are identical
mdec/upboot are identical
mdec/upboot.s are identical
mdec/utboot are identical
mdec/utboot.s are identical
mdec/uttoggle are identical
mdec/uttoggle.s are identical
