h59741
s 00029/00018/00133
d D 8.2 94/01/02 10:29:04 bostic 18 17
c document -C for users that want their own environment
e
s 00002/00002/00149
d D 8.1 93/06/06 15:23:28 bostic 17 16
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00092/00072/00059
d D 6.14 91/04/29 04:47:10 cael 16 15
c mdoc version three/bsd copyright
e
s 00005/00004/00126
d D 6.13 91/04/18 16:12:47 bostic 15 14
c new copyright; att/bsd/shared
e
s 00004/00001/00126
d D 6.12 90/07/21 10:31:44 bostic 14 13
c add the how flag (-h) which prints out the lines between the SYNOPSIS
c and DESCRIPTION headers
e
s 00012/00003/00115
d D 6.11 90/06/28 18:04:39 trent 13 12
c MANPATH subdirectories now specified by _config in man.conf
e
s 00012/00023/00106
d D 6.10 90/06/24 19:12:51 cael 12 11
c converted man page
e
s 00043/00035/00086
d D 6.9 90/05/27 15:24:04 bostic 11 10
c new man version, with much more complicated configuration file
e
s 00109/00057/00012
d D 6.8 90/03/11 15:11:08 bostic 10 9
c add -m flag, configurable directory search path (/etc/man.config)
c add man.config man page, redo man(1) man page, now AT&T free.  Change '-'
c option to -c, other minor whacks
e
s 00004/00001/00065
d D 6.7 88/04/19 12:17:12 bostic 9 8
c new option, -a, displays all manual pages
e
s 00034/00100/00032
d D 6.6 87/06/30 20:37:18 bostic 8 7
c new manual structure; remove apropos(1), whatis(1), document 
c various environmental variables.
e
s 00001/00001/00131
d D 6.5 86/05/09 08:30:45 anne 7 6
c grammar
e
s 00000/00011/00132
d D 6.4 86/05/05 15:48:35 mckusick 6 5
c -t is gone (sorry Jay)
e
s 00005/00001/00138
d D 6.3 86/03/21 00:26:04 lepreau 5 4
c doc MANPATH
e
s 00011/00000/00128
d D 6.2 85/08/07 18:39:05 mckusick 4 3
c allow systems to maintain only cat? version (from ks@purdue)
e
s 00045/00023/00083
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:35:55 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00007/00009/00099
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:35:41 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00108/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:35:31 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 10
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 10
I 10
D 12
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 12
I 12
D 15
.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 15
I 15
D 17
.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 17
I 17
.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 17
E 15
E 12
E 10
.\"
I 10
D 12
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
E 12
I 12
D 15
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 15
I 15
.\" %sccs.include.redist.roff%
.\"
D 16
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 16
I 16
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 16
E 15
E 12
.\"
E 10
D 12
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH MAN 1
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH MAN 1 "18 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH MAN 1 "%Q%"
E 12
I 12
D 16
.TH MAN 1 "%Q"
E 12
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 8
man \- find manual information by keywords; print out the manual
E 8
I 8
D 10
man \- print out the manual
E 10
I 10
man \- display the on-line manual pages
E 10
E 8
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 10
.br
.B man
D 3
.B \-k
keyword ...
.br
.B man
.B \-f
file ...
.br
.B man
E 3
[
.B \-
] [
I 9
.B -a
] [
E 9
D 6
.B \-t
] [
E 6
I 3
.B \-M
.I path
] [
E 3
section
]
title ...
E 10
I 10
.nf
.ft B
D 11
man [-acw] [-M path] [-m path] [section] title ...
E 11
I 11
D 14
man [ -acw ] [ -M path ] [ -m path ] [ section ] name ...
E 14
I 14
man [ -achw ] [ -M path ] [ -m path ] [ section ] name ...
E 14
E 11
.ft R
.fi
E 10
I 3
D 8
.br
.B man
.B \-k
keyword ...
.br
.B man
.B \-f
file ...
E 8
E 3
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 8
.I Man
is a program which gives information from the programmers manual.
D 2
It can be asked form one line descriptions of commands specified by
E 2
I 2
It can be asked for one line descriptions of commands specified by
E 2
name, or for all commands whose description contains any of a set of
keywords.  It can also provide on-line access to the sections of the
printed manual.
E 8
I 8
D 10
\fIMan\fP is the program which provides on-line access to the UNIX manual.
If a \fIsection\fP specifier is given, \fIman\fP looks in that section of
the manual for the given \fItitle\fP(s).  \fISection\fP is either an Arabic
section number (``3'' for example), or one of the words ``local'', ``new,''
or ``old''.  (The abbreviations ``l'', ``n'', and ``o'' are also allowed.)
If \fIsection\fP is omitted, \fIman\fP searches all sections of the manual,
giving preference to commands over library subroutines, and displays the
D 9
first manual page it finds, if any.
E 9
I 9
first manual page it finds, if any.  If the \fI-a\fP option is supplied,
\fIman\fP displays all applicable manual pages.
E 10
I 10
.I Man
D 11
displays the UNIX manual pages.
E 11
I 11
displays the UNIX manual pages entitled
.IR name .
E 11
E 10
E 9
E 8
.PP
E 16
I 16
.Dd %Q%
.Dt MAN 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm man
.Nd display the on-line manual pages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm man
.Op Fl achw
I 18
.Op Fl C Ar file
E 18
.Op Fl M Ar path
.Op Fl m Ar path
.Op Ar section
.Ar name Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm man
utility
displays the
.Bx
manual pages entitled
.Ar name .
.Pp
E 16
D 8
When given the option
.B \-k
and a set of keywords,
.I man
prints out a one line synopsis of each manual sections whose
D 3
listing in the table of contents contains that keyword.
E 3
I 3
listing in the table of contents contains one of those keywords.
E 8
I 8
D 10
Normally \fIman\fP checks in standard locations (/usr/man and /usr/local/man)
for manual information.  This can be changed by supplying a search path (a
la the Bourne shell) with the \fB-M\fP flag.  The search path is a colon
(``:'') separated list of directories in which \fIman\fP expects to find
the standard manual subdirectories.  This search path can also be set with
the environmental variable \fIMANPATH\fP.
E 10
I 10
The options are as follows:
D 16
.TP
D 11
.I a
E 11
I 11
a
E 16
I 16
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
E 16
E 11
Display all of the manual pages for a specified
D 11
.IR title .
E 11
I 11
D 16
.I section
E 16
I 16
.Ar section
E 16
and
D 16
.I name
E 16
I 16
.Ar name
E 16
combination.
E 11
(Normally, only the first manual page found is displayed.)
I 18
.It Fl C
Use the specified 
.Ar file
instead of the default configuration file.
This permits users to configure their own manual environment.
See
.Xr man.conf 5
for a description of the contents of this file.
E 18
D 16
.TP
D 11
.I c
E 11
I 11
c
E 16
I 16
.It Fl c
E 16
E 11
Copy the manual page to the standard output instead of using
D 11
.I more (1)
E 11
I 11
D 16
.IR more (1)
E 16
I 16
.Xr more 1
E 16
E 11
to paginate it.
This is done by default if the standard output is not a terminal device.
I 14
D 16
.TP
h
Display only the ``SYNOPSIS'' lines of the requested manual pages.
E 14
.TP
D 11
.I M
Override the list of standard directories where
E 11
I 11
M
E 16
I 16
.It Fl h
Display only the
.Dq Tn SYNOPSIS
lines of the requested manual pages.
.It Fl M
E 16
Override the list of standard directories which
E 11
D 16
.I man
E 16
I 16
.Nm man
E 16
searches for manual pages.
The supplied
D 16
.I path
E 16
I 16
.Ar path
E 16
must be a colon (``:'') separated list of directories.
D 12
This search path may also be set using the environmental variable
E 12
I 12
This search path may also be set using the environment variable
E 12
D 16
.IR MANPATH .
E 16
I 16
.Ev MANPATH .
E 16
I 13
D 18
The subdirectories to be searched as well as their search order
E 18
I 18
The subdirectories to be searched, and their search order,
E 18
is specified by the ``_subdir'' line in the
D 16
.I man
E 16
I 16
.Nm man
E 16
configuration file.
E 13
D 16
.TP
D 11
.I m
Augment the list of standard directories where
E 11
I 11
m
E 16
I 16
.It Fl m
E 16
Augment the list of standard directories which
E 11
D 16
.I man
E 16
I 16
.Nm man
E 16
searches for manual pages.
The supplied
D 16
.I path
E 16
I 16
.Ar path
E 16
must be a colon (``:'') separated list of directories.
These directories will be searched before the standard directories or
D 11
the directories supplied with the
E 11
I 11
the directories specified using the
E 11
D 16
.I M
E 16
I 16
.Fl M
E 16
option or the
D 16
.I MANPATH
E 16
I 16
.Ev MANPATH
E 16
D 11
environmental variable are searched.
E 11
I 11
D 12
environmental variable.
E 12
I 12
environment variable.
I 18
The subdirectories to be searched, and their search order,
is specified by the ``_subdir'' line in the
.Nm man
configuration file.
E 18
E 12
E 11
D 16
.TP
.I w
E 16
I 16
.It Fl w
E 16
D 11
List the locations of the manual pages that
E 11
I 11
List the pathnames of the manual pages which
E 11
D 16
.I man
E 16
I 16
.Nm man
E 16
would display for the specified
D 11
.IR title .
E 11
I 11
D 16
.I section
E 16
I 16
.Ar section
E 16
and
D 16
.I name
E 16
I 16
.Ar name
E 16
combination.
E 11
E 10
E 8
E 3
D 16
.PP
E 16
I 16
.El
.Pp
E 16
D 8
When given the option
.B \-f
and a list of file names, \fIman\fR attempts to locate manual
sections related to those files, printing out the table of contents
lines for those sections.
E 8
I 8
D 10
Since some manual pages are intended for use only on certain machines,
\fIman\fP only searches those directories applicable to the current
machine.  \fIMan\fP's determination of the current machine type can
be overridden by setting the environmental variable \fIMACHINE\fP.
E 8
.PP
D 8
When neither
.B \-k
nor
.B \-f
is specified,
.I man
formats a specified set of manual pages.
If a section specifier is given
.I man
looks in the that section of the manual for the given
.I titles.
.I Section
D 2
is an arabic section number, i.e. 3,
which may be followed by a single letter classifier, i.e. 1g
indicating a graphics program in section 1.
If
E 2
I 2
D 3
is an Arabic section number (3 for instance).  The number may followed by
a single letter classifier (1g for instance)
indicating a graphics program in section 1.  If
E 3
I 3
is either
an Arabic section number (3 for instance), or one of the words ``new,''
``local,'' ``old,'' or ``public.''
D 7
A section number may followed by
E 7
I 7
A section number may be followed by
E 7
a single letter classifier (for instance, 1g,
indicating a graphics program in section 1).  If
E 3
E 2
.I section
is omitted,
.I man
searches all sections of the manual, giving preference to commands
over subroutines in system libraries, and printing the first section
it finds, if any.
E 8
I 8
If the standard output is a teletype, and the \fB-\fP flag is not provided,
\fIman\fP uses \fImore\fP(1), or the pager provided by the environmental
variable \fIPAGER\fP, to display the manual page.
E 8
.PP
D 8
If the standard output is a teletype, or if the flag
.B \-
D 2
is given, then
E 2
I 2
is given,
E 2
.I man
pipes its output through
D 3
.IR cat (1)
E 3
I 3
.IR more (1)
E 3
with the option
.B \-s
D 3
to crush out useless blank lines,
.IR ul (1)
D 2
to create proper underlines for different terminals,
and through
E 2
I 2
to create proper underlines for different terminals, and through
E 2
.IR more (1)
to stop after each page on the screen.
E 3
I 3
to crush out useless blank lines
and to stop after each page on the screen.
E 3
Hit a space to continue,
a control-D to scroll 11 more lines when the output stops.
D 6
.PP
The
.B \-t
flag causes
.I man
to arrange for the specified section to be
.I troff'ed
to a suitable raster output device; see
.IR vtroff (1).
E 6
I 3
.PP
Normally
.I man
checks in a standard location for manual
information (/usr/man).  This can be changed by supplying a search
path (a la the shell) with the
.B \-M
flag.  The search path is a colon (`:') separated list
of directories in which manual subdirectories may be found;
D 5
e.g. ``/usr/local:/usr/man''.  If a search path is supplied
E 5
I 5
e.g. ``/usr/local:/usr/man''.  
.hw MANPATH
If the environment variable `MANPATH' is set,
its value is used for the default path.
If a search path is supplied
E 5
with the 
.B \-k
or
.B \-f
options, it must be specified first.
I 4
.PP
.I Man
will look for the manual page in either of two forms, the nroff source or
preformatted pages.
If either version is available, the manual page will be displayed.
If the preformatted version is available, and it has a more recent modify
time than the nroff source,  it will be promptly displayed.
Otherwise, the manual page will be formatted with nroff and displayed.
If the user has permission, the formatted manual page will be deposited
in the proper place, so that later invocations of man will not need to
format the page again.
E 8
I 8
The FORTRAN version of section 3 of the manual may be specified by supplying
\fIman\fP with the \fIsection\fP ``3f''.  Also, a specific section of the
local manual may be specified by appending a number to the \fIsection\fP,
i.e. ``l5'' would indicate section 5 of the local manual.
E 10
I 10
D 11
Section numbers restrict the portions of the manual that
E 11
I 11
The optional
D 16
.I section
E 16
I 16
.Ar section
E 16
D 18
restricts the directories that
E 18
I 18
argument restricts the directories that
E 18
E 11
D 16
.I man
E 16
I 16
.Nm man
E 16
D 11
will search to a single section.
The section number should be a number, ``1'' through ``8'', or ``3f''
to specify the FORTRAN versions of section 3 of the manual.
If no section number is given,
E 11
I 11
will search.
The
E 11
D 16
.I man
E 16
I 16
.Nm man
E 16
D 11
will search the sections in the following order:
``1'', ``8'', ``6'', ``2'', ``3'', ``4'', ``5'', ``7'' and ``3f''.
This is to give precedence to commands over library subroutines.
E 11
I 11
configuration file (see
D 13
.IR man.conf (5))
E 13
I 13
D 16
.IR man_conf (5))
E 16
I 16
D 18
.Xr man_conf 5 )
E 18
I 18
.Xr man.conf 5 )
E 18
E 16
E 13
specifies the possible
D 16
.I section
E 16
I 16
.Ar section
E 16
values that are currently available.
If only a single argument is specified or if the first argument is
not a valid section,
D 16
.I man
E 16
I 16
.Nm man
E 16
assumes that the argument is the name of a manual page to be displayed.
E 11
D 12
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
E 12
I 12
D 16
.SH ENVIRONMENT
E 12
.TP
D 11
.I
E 11
MACHINE
E 16
I 16
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width MANPATHX
.It Ev MACHINE
E 16
D 18
As some manual pages are intended only for use on certain architectures,
E 18
I 18
As some manual pages are intended only for specific architectures,
E 18
D 16
.I man
E 16
I 16
.Nm man
E 16
D 11
only searches the directories applicable to the current machine.
E 11
I 11
D 18
searches certain directories applicable to the current machine.
E 11
D 16
.I Man's
E 16
I 16
Man's
E 16
determination of the current machine type may be overridden by setting
D 11
the environmental variable
.I MACHINE
to the name of an architecture.
Currently supported architectures are ``tahoe'' and ``vax''.
E 11
I 11
D 12
the environmental variable MACHINE to the name of an architecture (see
E 12
I 12
D 16
the environment variable MACHINE to the name of an architecture (see
E 12
.IR machine (1)).
E 16
I 16
the environment variable
.Ev MACHINE
to the name of an architecture (see
.Xr machine 1 ) .
E 18
I 18
searches any subdirectories,
with the same name as the current architecture,
in every directory which it searches.
E 18
E 16
E 11
Machine specific areas are checked before general areas.
I 18
The current machine type may be overridden by setting the environment
variable
.Ev MACHINE
to the name of a specific architecture.
E 18
D 16
.TP
D 11
.I MANPATH
E 11
I 11
MANPATH
E 16
I 16
.It Ev MANPATH
E 16
E 11
The standard search path used by
D 16
.I man
D 11
may be overridden by specifying a path in the
.I MANPATH
environmental variable.
E 11
I 11
D 12
may be overridden by specifying a path in the MANPATH environmental
E 12
I 12
may be overridden by specifying a path in the MANPATH environment
E 16
I 16
.Nm man
may be overridden by specifying a path in the
.Ev MANPATH
environment
E 16
E 12
variable.
E 11
The format of the path is a colon (``:'') separated list of directories.
I 13
The subdirectories to be searched as well as their search order
is specified by the ``_subdir'' line in the
D 16
.I man
E 16
I 16
.Nm man
E 16
configuration file.
E 13
D 16
.TP
D 11
.I
E 11
PAGER
E 16
I 16
.It Ev PAGER
E 16
D 12
Any value of the environmental variable
E 12
I 12
Any value of the environment variable
E 12
D 16
.I PAGER
E 16
I 16
.Ev PAGER
E 16
D 18
will be used instead of the standard pagination program
E 18
I 18
will be used instead of the standard pagination program,
E 18
D 16
.IR more (1).
E 10
E 8
E 4
E 3
.SH FILES
D 3
/usr/man/man?/*
.br
/usr/man/cat?/*
E 3
I 3
D 10
.nf
D 8
.ta \w'/usr/man/man?/*   'u
E 8
I 8
.ta \w'/usr/local/man/man?/*   'u
E 8
/usr/man	standard manual area
D 8
/usr/man/man?/*	directories containing source for manuals
/usr/man/cat?/*	directories containing preformatted pages
/usr/man/whatis	keyword database
E 8
I 8
/usr/man/cat?/*	directories containing standard manual pages
/usr/local/man/cat?/*	directories containing local manual pages
/usr/src/man	directories containing unformatted manual pages
E 8
.fi
E 3
.SH SEE\ ALSO
D 3
more(1), ul(1), whereis(1), catman(8)
E 3
I 3
D 8
apropos(1), more(1), whereis(1), catman(8)
E 8
I 8
apropos(1), more(1), whatis(1), whereis(1)
E 10
I 10
D 11
/etc/man.config	standard directory search path
E 11
I 11
D 12
/etc/man.config	man configuration file
E 12
I 12
D 13
/etc/man.conf	man configuration file
E 13
I 13
/etc/man.conf	man configuration file (see
.IR man_conf (5))
E 13
E 12
E 11
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 11
apropos(1), whatis(1), whereis(1), man.config(5)
E 11
I 11
D 13
apropos(1), machine(1), whatis(1), whereis(1), man.conf(5)
E 13
I 13
apropos(1), machine(1), whatis(1), whereis(1), man_conf(5)
E 13
E 11
E 10
E 8
E 3
.SH BUGS
E 16
I 16
.Xr more 1 .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /etc/man.conf -compact
.It Pa /etc/man.conf
D 18
man configuration file (see
.Xr man_conf 5 )
E 18
I 18
default man configuration file.
E 18
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr apropos 1 ,
D 18
.Xr machine 1 ,
E 18
.Xr whatis 1 ,
.Xr whereis 1 ,
D 18
.Xr man_conf 5
E 18
I 18
.Xr man.conf 5
E 18
.Sh BUGS
E 16
D 8
The manual is supposed to be reproducible either on the phototypesetter
or on a typewriter.
However, on a typewriter some information is necessarily lost.
E 8
I 8
D 10
The manual is supposed to be reproducible either on the
phototypesetter or on a typewriter, however, on a typewriter,
some information is necessarily lost.
E 10
I 10
The on-line manual pages are, by necessity, forgiving toward stupid
D 18
display devices, causing some manual pages to not be as good as their
typeset counterparts.
E 18
I 18
display devices, causing a few manual pages to not as nicely formatted
as their typeset counterparts.
E 18
I 16
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm
command appeared in
.At v6 .
E 16
E 10
E 8
E 1
