.TH atalk.local 5
.UC 4

.SH NAME
atalk.local \- interface from CAP (KIP version) to KIP

.SH DESCRIPTION
Unlike LocalTalk and EtherTalk hosts, KIP based CAP hosts do not
dynamically establish their AppleTalk addresses, zones, or the "network"s
AppleTalk bridge.
The primary function of 
.I atalk.local
is to define these values.
.PP
The format of the file is quite simple.  The first line defines the
AppleTalk address of the host.  The second line defines the AppleTalk
Bridge, which must be running KIP, to use.
.nf
	# host's appletalk network, node, zone
	55.1 5 MY_ZONE
	# bridge's appletalk network, node, and ip address
	55.1 5 128.254.1.5
.fi
Any line with "#" in the first column is considered a comment.  A
network number can be specified as a single number or as two bytes
seperated by a "." (as above).  An underscore in the zone name is
treated as a space.  If an underscore is desired, then enter two
underscores.  This is the same convention used by KIP's atalkad.
.PP
The contents of atalk.local follow rigidly from what is defined in KIP's
atalkatab.  Remember that atalkatab defines mappings for IP subnets to
AppleTalk networks.  The host's appletalk network number must set as one of
those mappings for the subnet that the host is on.  In addition, the
zone name specified in atalk.local
must be the zone name of the appletalk network specified.
The host's node number must be the last byte of the host's ip network
number.  For more information on why this is necessary, see the
section on KIP routing
below.
.PP
The AppleTalk bridge selection is only slightly more flexible: you are
allowed to select which bridge to use.  Theoretically, you may use
the aneta, anete or anetet network number; however, in practice,
it is only possible to use the anete network number because the node
numbers associated with the bridge in the aneta and anetet networks
are not necessarily static.  The anete network number is the one for
the UDP encapsulated "interface".  It should be the network number
specified in the kbox's configuration as the anete field.
Just as with the host's node number, the bridge's host number, when using
the anete network number, must be the last byte of the IP address.
.SH KIP ROUTING
KIP routes to UDP encapsulated networks by using the AppleTalk to IP
mappings (N[0123]
and "H" flagged lines) defined
in atalkatab to go from AppleTalk network numbers to IP networks
numbers and vice versa.  Of
particular interest is that it assumes
that the IP address of a host can be found by replacing the last byte
of the IP address defined in the mapping with the DDP node number.
(Remember, KIP encapsulates DDP packets not LAP packets).
This has
two major consequences.  First, 
the node numbers of KIP/CAP hosts
must be the same as the last byte of their IP network numbers.
.PP
Second, Appletalk to IP network mappings
are expected to cover subnets (8 bit subnets for Class B networks, 16
bit for Class A networks).  For the purposes of routing, it does not
matter how your IP networks are really subnetted (or not subnetted).
However, the mapping also defines a second piece of information.  It
tells how to broadcast NBP lookup requests to all hosts on a
particular UDP capsulated Appletalk network and the
underlying IP network structure is of importance here.  Unfortunately,
the details of this issue are beyond the scope of this document.
.SH NOTES
The node numbers should be automatically determined since they are
fixed.  In addition, it would be nice if the zone name were picked up
automatically as well.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Because of the way the underscore is handled, it is not possible to
have a zone name with a space directly preceeding an underscore.  In
other words, "F _B" cannot be specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
KIP documentation
.br
cap(8)
