.TH AppleTalk Printing 1X
.UC 4
.SH NAME
AppleTalk Printing \- printing to and from Appletalk
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lwpr,
.I iwpr,
.I tlw,
.I isrv
are four programs distributed as sample programs as part of the CAP
distribution which illustrate the use of CAP to print to and from
Apple printers and Macintoshes.
.PP
.I lwpr
is the simplest of the bunch and allows one to send a single file to a
LaserWriter.  The syntax is simply "lwpr -p "lwname" <file> ...".
The LaserWriter name should be the fully qualified name (e.g. 
"LaserWriter:LaserWriter@*").  If you have your PRINTER environment
variable set to a printer that maps to a LaserWriter (via
cap.printers), then you may omit the "-p" option.
.I iwpr
functions in exactly the same way,
except it expects to talk to an Appletalk ImageWriter II (e.g.
A-TALK:ImageWriter@*).
.PP
.I tlw
allows you to communicate with the interactive executive on a remote
LaserWriter.  To invoke tlw, simply type "tlw <laserwriter name>".
You can terminate the conversation with an EOF signal (normally ^D).
.PP
.I isrv
is designed to look like an AppleTalk
ImageWriter II.
.I isrv
is invoked as "isrv -P <printer name> -T <base model>"
where <printer name> is a printer in /etc/printcap (see papif(8)) and
the <base model> can only be ImageWriter.
.SH NOTES
.I isrv
is incredibly slow.  We do not recommend the use of AppleTalk
ImageWriters outside of an AppleTalk network (e.g. use it on a single
cable only).  It is included because it was written before we realized
how bad the overhead was.
.PP
.I lsrv
and 
.I lwsrv
were previously documented here.
.I lsrv
has been removed from the distribution.
.I lwsrv
is now documented seperately.
.SH BUGS
There are bound to be several.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'cap/extras/cap.printers       'u
cap/extras/cap.printers	printers file for papif
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
lwpr, iwpr, tlw and isrv were written by Charlie C. Kim of
Columbia University.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
atis(8), papif(8), cap(3), cap(8)
