.TH CAP 8
.UC 4
.SH NAME
CAP \- Columbia AppleTalk Package for Unix
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I CAP
is written for UNIX BSD 4.2 and its derivatives and implements a
portion of Apple
Computer's AppleTalk protocols.  In order to use this package you need 
an Internet AppleTalk Bridge such as Kinetic's FastPath box or the
Stanford University Seagate box which act as gateways from a TCP/IP
Ethernet network to a AppleTalk network.
.PP
CAP routines are structured, for the most part, the same as the Apple
routines described in "Inside AppleTalk" and "Inside LaserWriter."
Refer to the Apple documents and the procedure comments for a complete
description of the routines and how to call them.
.PP
Currently the AppleTalk protocols supported by CAP are:
.br
.I AppleTalk Transaction Protocol (ATP)
.br
.I Name Binding Protocol (NBP)
.br
.I Printer Access Protocol (PAP)
.br
.I AppleTalk Session Protocol (ASP)
.br
.I AppleTalk Filing Protocol (AFP) client side
.br
In addition, the 
.I Datagram Delivery Protocol (DDP)
and
.I Zone Information Protocol (ZIP)
are partially available.
The structure of the Internet Appletalk Bridge software makes it
impossible to provide full DDP service.  Only the Get Zone List ATP
ZIP command is implemented for ZIP.
.PP
CAP, is of course, highly dependent upon the availability of a
Ethernet to Appletalk gateway which we term an Internet Appletalk
Bridge.  Currently, CAP is based upon the KIP revision of the UDP
code as done by Bill Croft of SUMEX at Stanford University.
.PP
Server AFP is implemented in the AppleTalk Filing Protocol Unix File
Server 
.I (Aufs).
Aufs allows Macintoshes running AppleShare client code to use Unix
file systems as if they were MacIntosh volumes and also attempts to
allow them to use Unix files.
.PP
Three main applications are made available:
.TP
.I papif
acts as a line printer input filter spooling from a unix host to a
LaserWriter. See
.I papif(8)
for more information.
.TP
.I lwsrv
offloads spooling to the LaserWriter from the MacIntosh to a Unix host.
See
.I lwsrv(8)
for more information.
.TP
.I Aufs
is an AppleTalk Filing Protocol unix file server (AppleShare
compatible).  See
.I Aufs(1)
for more information. 
.PP
In addition, a number of sample programs are available.  These are included
strictly to point out some of the functionality made available by CAP.
.TP
.I lwpr
is a simple program which allows printing from a CAP host to a
LaserWriter.  See
.I atprint(1x)
for more information.
.TP
.I tlw
access the interactive mode of the LaserWriter, known as the
executive.
See 
.I atprint(1x)
for more information.
.TP
.I isrv, iwpr
spool from and print to an AppleTalk ImageWriter.  See
.I atprint(1x) for more information.
.TP 
.I look, looks, pinger
lookup Appletalk names.  See
.I look(1x)
for more information.
.SH AUTHOR
Charlie C. Kim, User Services, Columbia University Center for
Computing Activites and Bill Schilit, Computer Science Department,
Columbia University.  Contributions from Bill Croft, Stanford
University and Dan Tappan of Bolt, Bernak, and Newman.
.SH NOTES
Bill Croft's original work in this area provided the inspiration for
CAP.
.PP
Unfortunately, the interfaces for CAP have diverged some from the Apple
specifications (additonal features, some code was written before Apple
released their specifications, etc).  Most of the differences are
documented in the "doc" directory that comes with CAP.
.PP
The ZIP functions work only with revision 1/88 or later of KIP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
atprint(1x), atis(8), papif(8), Aufs(1), lwsrv(8), atlook(1x), cap(3)
