.TH CAP 3
.UC 4

.SH NAME
libcap \- base CAP networking library 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I libcap
is the library of routines that implement a large subset of the
AppleTalk protocols.  Currently, the only method of sending data is
through the use of IP/UDP.  This is done by encapsulating DDP packets
in UDP packets and defining a UDP port range to map to the DDP port
range.  This method is often referred to as "KIP encapsulation".
.PP
Note: The afp client protocols are in afpc library and the afp
server protocols are not implemented as a library.  lib/afp provides a
set of support routines for AFP client and server programs.
.PP
Other transport methods, such as EtherTalk, etc. are
allowed; however, they do require kernel support.  In general, the
kernel support will have to provide support up to and including the
DDP level or else a "demultiplexing process" will be required to
forward DDP packets to the correct "process".  
.PP
The architecture of
the CAP AppleTalk protocol implementation is fairly simple.  At the
lowest layer, abkip and abddp work together to provide DDP support.
On top of the DDP layer, ATP and NBP provide the basic transport and
name binding functionality.  ASP, PAP, and the parts of ZIP that are
implemented are layered on top of ATP.
.PP
The protocols are not run automatically.  Programs are responsible for
giving up the cpu at regular intervals by a call to a "sleep" routine
(abSleep) to allow the
protocols to run.  The various protocols will schedule two kinds of
events that can be run.  The first is "packet ready" event that
indicates input is ready on a particular socket.  The second is a
"timeout" event.  Note: A "packet ready" event takes precendent over a
"timeout" event.  These events are handled by calling handler
routines that run fairly quickly and without blocking.  See
doc/sched.notes for futher information.
.PP
.SH DEBUG FLAGS
The following standard cap debugging flags are provided by the abmisc
.I "dbugarg"
routine.
.nf
	d - DDP
	a - ATP
	n - NBP
	p - PAP
	s - ASP
	k - Scheduler
.fi
The following flags are also accepted, but are not used.
.nf
	i - Initialization code
	l - LAP
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
.ta \w'doc/sched.notes  	'u
doc/abmisc.doc	miscellaneous routines
doc/asp.notes	asp notes
doc/atp.notes	atp notes
doc/cap.notes	general notes
doc/nbp.ext	nbp extensions for unix
doc/pap.notes	pap notes
doc/sched.notes	protocol scheduler notes
.fi
