.TH cvt2apple 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
cvt2apple, cvt2cap \- convert CAP files to from Apple files
.SH SYNTAX
.B cvt2apple
[
.B \-d
] 
.B cap-file
.B apple-file
.PP
.B cvt2cap
.B apple-file
.B cap-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I cvt2apple
converts CAP format files to Apple-Single or Apple-Double format file suitable
for launching by the A/UX
.I launch
program.
.I cvt2cap 
converts Apple single and/or Apple-Double files to CAP format files.
.PP
A CAP file consists of three parts: the data fork, which is
the file which has same name as the whole CAP file; the resource fork
which is a file with the same name as the data fork but located
in a subdirectory called ".resource" of the directory in which the
data fork is located; and the finder information, located in a subdirectory
called ".finderinfo".
.PP
An Apple-Single format file contains all this information in a single file
using a standard format (see the A/UX Release Notes 1.0 page 5-2).
An Apple-Double
format file is similar to an Apple-Single file except that the data fork is
stored in in a seperate file, in this case the resource/finder part part has
the same name as the data fork except that its name has a '%' prefix.
.PP
.I cvt2apple 
by default makes Apple-Single format files, if the
.I \-d
option is specified then an Apple-Double format file is created. This should 
normally be used for data files or for applications that write to their 
data forks.
.PP
To copy a macintosh file so it can be used under A/UX first mount an aufs
appleshare filesystem on the destination system on the source Macintosh,
next drag the application you want to run into that filesystem. Finally
on the destination machine run
.I cvt2apple
to convert the cap file to a launchable apple format file.
.SH NOTES
.I cvt2apple
does not create Icon, real-name, or file-info records in apple format
files, since most Mac files contain their own icon information this
is probably not a problem.
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Campbell
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cap(8)
