.TH lwsrv 8
.UC 4
.SH NAME
lwsrv \- simple LaserWriter spooling agent
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lwsrv
is a multi-threaded LaserWriter spooler (e.g. multiple incoming jobs
are allowed).
.I lwsrv
allows these jobs to be queued for printing via the standard Berkeley
lpd spooling software (it is easily modified for other systems).
.I lwsrv
assumes that it is spooling for a particular type of printer as
defined by the certain input files.  Currently, this only specified by
the font coordination list file.
.PP
A generic problem, at current, with
LaserWriter spoolers, is that the proper Apple dictionary must be
downloaded to the LaserWriter.  An Apple dictionary is the "prologue"
code termed a "Procedure Set or ProcSet" sent by the LaserWriter
spooler on a Macintosh (contained in
LaserPrep) that defines a "set" of routines for use by Macintosh
applications.
.PP
.I lwsrv
attempts to resolve the problem by insert the proper dictionary in the
incoming jobs before attempting to spool them.
Unfortunately,
.I lwsrv
doesn't know about these appledicts a priori.  They must be supplied
to it, though, it does attempt to be intelligent about attempting to
retrieve them from the client.
.PP
.I lwsrv
will be able to record an unknown appledict if follows Version 2 of the
.I Adobe Systems PostScript Document Structuring Conventions (DSC).
Any LaserPrep of
version 4.0 or higher should do this.  (Warning: the AppleDict as
uploaded is not usable unless the "-e" flags is used, cf. Installation
instructions).
.I lwsrv
actually understands Procedure Sets as defined in the Document
Structuring Conventions.
As noted before, Apple's LaserPrep AppleDict's are just a specific
instance of a
Procedure Set.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
\fB\-n object (required)
is used to specify the printer name that will be register (e.g. that
will show up in Chooser).  It may be up to 31 characters long.
.TP 10
\fB\-p printer name (required)
specifies the name of the Unix printer that lwsrv should send the
spooled print requests to.  <printer name> should exist in
/etc/printcap.
.TP 10
\fB\-a Dictionary Directory (required)
specifies the name of the directory that will hold the various
Procedure Sets (of which an AppleDict in a LaserPrep is a particular
instance of).  Procsets must have the line
"%%BeginProcSet: <procsetname>" as the first line.  In addition,
unknown procsets will be recorded in this directory if possible: note
received procsets will probably require some editing.
.TP 10
\fB\-f FontFile (required)
specifes the file that contains a Font Coordination List.  It
essentially tells the Macintosh or other devices spooling to lwsrv
what fonts exist on the device it expects to send the spooled job.
.TP 10
\fB\-e
tells lwsrv to that it should allow for an eexec to occur in a
procset.  This option may cause problems!  See the lwsrv README file
for more information.
.TP 10
\fB\-h
means to print do a "lpr -h" when printing the spooled file.
.TP 10
\fB-A on|off
defines whether lwsrv should suppose that all client programs speaking
to it will properly follow the Adobe Document Structuring Convention
version 2.0.  For now, all it really does is define where the
procedure set definitions are loaded.  Turning this on, when there is
a client program that doesn't quite follow the conventions, may cause
the procedure set not to be loaded or in the wrong place.
(Specifically, it looks for an IncludeProcSet instruction).
.TP 10
\fB-S
tells lwsrv that is should run in a single fork.  Normally, lwsrv
forks off a child to deal with each print request to minimize
contention.  Unfortunately, status information returned to the client
programs isn't as detailed when lwsrv is running multiforking.
.TP 10
\fB-T crtolf|quote8bit|makenondscconformant
are TransScript compatibility options.  Since the names are so long,
spaces, "-"s, "_"s, and tabs are allowed like:
.nf
	-T "cr to lf" -T "quote 8-bit"
.fi
to enhance readability.
.TP 15 
quote8bit
is used to quote 8
bit characters since TransScript masks characters to 7 bits.  Warning:
this could potentially cause problems if the PostScript interpreter
does not decode the quoted characters in some circumstances.
.TP 15
crtolf
is used to translate the Macintosh end of line terminator carriage
return to the unix end of line terminator line feed.  This is
necessary if the spooled file will be run through TranScript filters
like 
.I psrv
or
.I psrev
that assume the unix end of line terminator.  Warning: this can
potentially cause problems with binary data streams.
.TP 15
makenondscconformant
should be used when using the file will be printed on a unix
printer that will cause 
.I psrv
(a page reversal filter)
to be used.  This is standard for serial
TranScript printers and may have been configured that way for 
.I papif.
This option causes the printed file to be prepended with a line
containing "%!" so that it looks like it does not conform to the DSC.
The problem is that in version 2.0 of TranScript
.I psrv
leaves out part of the file when handling DSC version 2.0 documents.
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
.TP 10
\fB-r
keeps around the file spooled from the Macintosh for inspection
instead of removing it after printing. 
.TP 10
\fB-t <TraceFile>
is used to record all data received from the remote side in
<TraceFile>.  The remote side is also forced to send any ProcSets
used.  The result is not printed.
.TP 10
\fB-l <LogFile>
is used to specify a activity log file.
.TP 10
\fB-d <cap debug flags>
can be used to specify standard cap library debugging flags.  See
cap(3) for valid flags
.SH EXAMPLE

For example, to publish a LaserWriter "Laser" that prints on the unix
printer "ps" with Procedure sets recorded in /usr/lib/adicts and using
the font coordination list /usr/lib/lw-plus-fonts you would specify:
	lwsrv -n Laser -p ps -a/usr/lib/adicts /usr/lib/LW+Fonts

.SH NOTES
.I lwsrv
understands Apple LaserPrep's through version 4.0.
The Apple dictionaries are not supplied since they are copyrighted
property of Apple Computer. 
.PP
There are a number of "font list files" that are used in the dialog
with the spooling client.  These tell the client (Macintosh) what
fonts are available on the "supposed" printer.
The laser font files supplied may not work for all LaserPreps.  They
should work for LaserPreps 3.0 through 4.0.
.SH BUGS
.I lwsrv
cannot properly update the status message: when printing from a
Macintosh, you will see the message "Starting job" until it completes.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'cap/extras/LWPlusFonts     'u
cap/extras/LWFonts	fontfile list for LaserWriter
cap/extras/LWPlusFonts	fontfile list for LaserWriter Plus
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
lwsrv was written by Bill Schilit, Computer Science Department,
and Charlie C. Kim, User Services, Columbia University
.SH "SEE ALSO"
atis(8), cap(3), cap(8), lpr(1)
