.TH SNITCH 1 3/21/88
.CM 4
.SH NAME
snitch \- respond to AppleTalk(tm) Inter-Poll requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
snitch [-d cap-flags] [-n name] [-t type] [-f finderstring] [-l laserwriterstring] [-Dn] [-S]
.SH DESCRIPTION
snitch is a CAP program designed to run as a demon to respond to Inter-Poll
requests.  It registers itself as "name:type@*" via NBP, where name defaults
to the host name (without the domain) and type defaults to "UNIX/CAP".  The
response packets that are sent back to Inter-Poll try to have useful
information about the machine you are running on and the version of CAP.
You can override this information with the "-f" and "-l" switches.  The "-S"
switch makes snitch disassociate from the shell (like doing a snitch &).

The kinds of packet's that snitch sends back are only meaningful to
Inter-Poll, at least for now.  Also, the packet format is not documented by
Apple, so it currently is an educated guess.

To kill a snitch process cleanly, send the process a QUIT or TERM signal.
It will nbp_delete itself (as all nbp services should).

To really make this work with Inter-Poll, you want to add the string
"UNIX/CAP" (or your snitchtype) to the STR# that specifies the kinds of 
expected machine types.  The first item in that STR# is a number that 
indicates the number of following valid entries - add one to it and then
add "UNIX/CAP" at the end.  The string list is STR# "NIP Devices".
.SH FILES
Uses the cap file "atalk.local", usually in /etc.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cap(8), atis(8), cap(3)
.SH EXAMPLE
snitch -n "myCapMachine" -S
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Are written to stderr if any debugging switches are on.
If you use the "-S" switch, you won't see anything.
.SH BUGS
Only works with Inter-Poll by chance, might not work with future versions.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
.B 21-Mar-88
Ravinder Chandhok (chandhok) at Carnegie-Mellon University:
Created.

