h48220
s 00002/00002/00092
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:57:22 bostic 3 2
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00011/00004/00083
d D 5.2 91/03/22 14:46:27 bostic 2 1
c minor cleanup, using wording from makedev.8
e
s 00087/00000/00000
d D 5.1 91/03/22 14:21:58 bostic 1 0
c date and time created 91/03/22 14:21:58 by bostic
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 3
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 3
I 3
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 3
.\"
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.TH MAKEDEV 8 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
D 2
MAKEDEV \- create device special files
E 2
I 2
MAKEDEV \- create system and device special files
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
MAKEDEV device ...
E 2
I 2
MAKEDEV name ...
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
The shell script
.IR MAKEDEV ,
D 2
found in the ``/dev'' directory, is used to
create the common special files used to interface to peripherals.
E 2
I 2
found in the ``/dev'' directory, is used to create the common special
files.
E 2
See
.IR special (8)
for a more complete discussion of special files.
.PP
.I MAKEDEV
takes any number of device names as arguments, where the names are
the common abbreviation for the device.
I 2
There are two special devices, ``std'' and ``local''.
The former creates the standard devices for the architecture.
The latter is for devices specific to the local site, and
executes the shell file ``MAKEDEV.local''.
E 2
.PP
The Tahoe supports the following devices.
Where a device name is followed by a hash sign (``#''), the hash sign
must be replaced by a unit number.
.TP 10
std
the standard devices (CP, console, drum, fd/*, klog, kmem, mem, null,
remote, stderr, stdin, stdout, tty, vmem)
.br
.ns
.TP 10
local
configuration specific devices
.br
.ns
.TP 10
cy#
Cipher
.br
.ns
.TP 10
dk#
VDDC or SMDE disk on Versabus
.br
.ns
.TP 10
dr#
IKON DR-11W
.br
.ns
.TP 10
enp#
CMC Ethernet interface for loading RAM
.br
.ns
.TP 10
hd#
VDDC or SMDE disk on VME
.br
.ns
.TP 10
ik#
IKON DR-11W w/ E&S PS300
.br
.ns
.TP 10
mp#
MPCC
.br
.ns
.TP 10
pty#
set of 32 master and slave pseudo terminals
.br
.ns
.TP 10
vx#
VIOC
.SH FILES
/dev		The special file directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
I 2
.IR mknod (1), 
.IR intro (4),
.IR config (8),
E 2
.IR special (8)
E 1
