h58460
s 00001/00001/00096
d D 8.3 94/04/19 07:54:20 bostic 7 6
c spell
e
s 00001/00001/00096
d D 8.2 93/12/11 23:16:32 mckusick 6 5
c copyediting for Usenix manuals
e
s 00002/00002/00095
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:52:52 bostic 5 4
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00095/00042/00002
d D 6.2 91/04/29 04:31:31 cael 4 3
c mdoc version three/bsd copyright
e
s 00001/00001/00043
d D 6.1 85/05/15 18:14:59 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00002/00002/00042
d D 5.1 85/05/15 18:14:53 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00044/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 18:14:47 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 4
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 4
I 4
D 5
.\" Copyright 1980, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 5
I 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 5
E 4
.\"
D 2
.TH GROUP 5 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH GROUP 5  "15 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
D 4
.TH GROUP 5  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
group \- group file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Group
contains for each group the
following information:
.HP 10
group name
.br
.ns
.HP 10
encrypted password
.br
.ns
.HP 10
numerical group ID
.br
.ns
.HP 10
a comma separated list of all users allowed in the group
.PP
This is an ASCII file.
The fields are separated
by colons;
Each group is separated from the next by a new-line.
If the password field is null, no password is demanded.
.PP
This file resides in directory /etc.
Because of the encrypted
passwords, it can and does have general read
permission and can be used, for example,
to map numerical group ID's to names.
.SH FILES
/etc/group
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
newgrp(1), crypt(3), passwd(1), passwd(5)
E 2
I 2
setgroups(2), initgroups(3X), crypt(3), passwd(1), passwd(5)
E 2
.SH BUGS
E 4
I 4
.\" %sccs.include.redist.roff%
.\"
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt GROUP 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm group
.Nd format of the group permissions file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The file
.Aq Pa /etc/group
consists of newline separated
.Tn ASCII
records, one per group, containing four colon
.Ql \&:
separated fields. These fields are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width password -offset indent -compact
.It group
Name of the group.
.It passwd
Group's
.Em encrypted
password.
.It gid
The group's decimal ID.
.It member
Group members.
.El
.Pp
E 4
The
D 4
.IR passwd (1)
command won't change the passwords.
E 4
I 4
.Ar group
field is the group name used for granting file access to users
who are members of the group.
The
.Ar gid
field is the number associated with the group name.
They should both be unique across the system (and often
across a group of systems) since they control file access.
The
.Ar passwd
field
is an optional
.Em encrypted
password.
This field is rarely used
and an asterisk is normally placed in it rather than leaving it blank.
The 
.Ar member
D 7
field contains the names of users granted the priviledges of
E 7
I 7
field contains the names of users granted the privileges of
E 7
.Ar group .
D 6
The member names are separated by commas with out spaces or newlines.
E 6
I 6
The member names are separated by commas without spaces or newlines.
E 6
A user is automatically in a group if that group was specified
in their
.Pa /etc/passwd
entry and does not need to be added to that group in the
.Pa /etc/group file.
.\" .Pp
.\" When the system reads the file
.\" .Pa /etc/group
.\" the fields are read into the structure
.\" .Fa group
.\" declared in
.\" .Aq Pa grp.h :
.\" .Bd -literal -offset indent
.\" struct group {
.\"	char    *gr_name;        /* group name */
.\"	char    *gr_passwd;      /* group password */
.\"	int     gr_gid;          /* group id */
.\"	char    **gr_mem;        /* group members */
.\" };
.\" .Ed
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /etc/group -compact
.It Pa /etc/group
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr setgroups 2 ,
.Xr initgroups 3 ,
.Xr crypt 3 ,
.Xr passwd 1 ,
.Xr passwd 5
.Sh BUGS
The
.Xr passwd 1
command does not change the
.Nm group
passwords.
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm
file format appeared in
.At v6 .
E 4
E 1
