h26549
s 00002/00002/00158
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:53:12 bostic 11 10
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00017/00000/00143
d D 6.8 92/02/28 14:49:51 bostic 10 9
c add backward compatibility script for old passwd files
e
s 00094/00060/00049
d D 6.7 91/04/29 04:31:24 cael 9 8
c mdoc version three/bsd copyright
e
s 00001/00011/00108
d D 6.6 90/06/23 18:02:14 trent 8 7
c new copyright notice
e
s 00002/00000/00117
d D 6.5 89/05/08 12:08:49 bostic 7 6
c document that leaving fields empty turns off account/password aging
e
s 00006/00000/00111
d D 6.4 89/03/15 20:55:55 bostic 6 5
c document illegal characters
e
s 00098/00056/00013
d D 6.3 89/02/23 12:15:01 bostic 5 4
c from scratch, for shadow passwords
e
s 00000/00002/00069
d D 6.2 86/01/08 13:51:08 mckusick 4 3
c one of the bugs has been fixed
e
s 00001/00001/00070
d D 6.1 85/05/15 18:48:32 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00070
d D 5.1 85/05/15 18:48:11 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00071/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 18:47:38 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 5
D 9
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 The Regents of the University of California.
E 9
I 9
D 11
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
E 9
.\" All rights reserved.
E 11
I 11
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 11
.\"
D 8
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
E 8
I 8
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 8
.\"
E 5
I 1
D 9
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 9
I 9
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 9
.\"
D 2
.TH PASSWD 5 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH PASSWD 5  "15 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
D 9
.TH PASSWD 5  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
D 5
passwd \- password file
E 5
I 5
passwd \- password files
E 5
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Passwd
E 9
I 9
.Dd %Q%
.Dt PASSWD 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm passwd
.Nd format of the password file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm passwd
E 9
D 5
contains for each user the
following information:
.HP 10
name (login name, contains no upper case)
.br
.ns
.HP 10
encrypted password
.br
.ns
.HP 10
numerical user ID
.br
.ns
.HP 10
numerical group ID
.br
.ns
.HP 10
user's real name, office, extension, home phone.
.br
.ns
.HP 10
initial working directory
.br
.ns
.HP 10
program to use as Shell
E 5
I 5
files are files consisting of newline separated records, one per user,
containing ten colon (``:'') separated fields.  These fields are as
follows:
E 5
D 9
.PP
D 5
The name may contain `&', meaning insert the login name.
This information is set by the
.IR chfn (1)
command and used by the
.IR finger (1)
command.
E 5
I 5
.RS
 name		user's login name
 password		user's \fIencrypted\fP password
 uid			user's id
 gid			user's login group id
 class		user's general classification (unused)
 change		password change time
 expire		account expiration time
 gecos		general information about the user
 home_dir		user's home directory
 shell		user's login shell
.RE
E 5
.PP
E 9
I 9
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width password -offset indent
.It name
User's login name.
.It password
User's
.Em encrypted
password.
.It uid
User's id.
.It gid
User's login group id.
.It class
User's general classification (unused).
.It change
Password change time.
.It expire
Account expiration time.
.It gecos
General information about the user.
.It home_dir
User's home directory.
.It shell
User's login shell.
.El
.Pp
E 9
D 5
This is an ASCII file.  Each field within each user's entry
is separated from the next by a colon.
Each user is separated from the next by a new-line.
If the password field is null, no password is demanded;
if the Shell field is null, then
.I /bin/sh
is used.
E 5
I 5
The
D 9
.I name
E 9
I 9
.Ar name
E 9
field is the login used to access the computer account, and the
D 9
.I uid
E 9
I 9
.Ar uid
E 9
field is the number associated with it.  They should both be unique
across the system (and often across a group of systems) since they
control file access.
E 5
D 9
.PP
E 9
I 9
.Pp
E 9
D 5
This file resides in directory /etc.
Because of the encrypted
passwords, it can and does have general read
permission and can be used, for example,
to map numerical user ID's to names.
E 5
I 5
While it is possible to have multiple entries with identical login names
and/or identical user id's, it is usually a mistake to do so.  Routines
that manipulate these files will often return only one of the multiple
entries, and that one by random selection.
E 5
D 9
.PP
E 9
I 9
.Pp
E 9
I 6
The login name must never begin with a hyphen (``-''); also, it is strongly
suggested that neither upper-case characters or dots (``.'') be part
of the name, as this tends to confuse mailers.  No field may contain a
colon (``:'') as this has been used historically to separate the fields
in the user database.
D 9
.PP
E 9
I 9
.Pp
E 9
E 6
D 5
Appropriate precautions must be taken to lock the file against changes
if it is to be edited with a text editor;
.IR vipw (8)
does the necessary locking.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
E 5
I 5
The password field is the
D 9
.I encrypted
E 9
I 9
.Em encrypted
E 9
form of the password.
If the
D 9
.I password
E 9
I 9
.Ar password
E 9
field is empty, no password will be required to gain access to the
machine.  This is almost invariably a mistake.
Because these files contain the encrypted user passwords, they should
not be readable by anyone without appropriate privileges.
D 9
.PP
E 9
I 9
.Pp
E 9
The group field is the group that the user will be placed in upon login.
Since this system supports multiple groups (see
D 9
.IR groups (1))
E 9
I 9
.Xr groups 1 )
E 9
this field currently has little special meaning.
D 9
.PP
E 9
I 9
.Pp
E 9
The
D 9
.I class
E 9
I 9
.Ar class
E 9
field is currently unused.  In the near future it will be a key to
a
D 9
.IR termcap (5)
E 9
I 9
.Xr termcap 5
E 9
style database of user attributes.
D 9
.PP
E 9
I 9
.Pp
E 9
The
D 9
.I change
field is the number in seconds, GMT, from the epoch, until the
E 9
I 9
.Ar change
field is the number in seconds,
.Dv GMT ,
from the epoch, until the
E 9
password for the account must be changed.
I 7
This field may be left empty to turn off the password aging feature.
E 7
D 9
.PP
E 9
I 9
.Pp
E 9
The
D 9
.I expire
field is the number in seconds, GMT, from the epoch, until the
E 9
I 9
.Ar expire
field is the number in seconds,
.Dv GMT ,
from the epoch, until the
E 9
account expires.
I 7
This field may be left empty to turn off the account aging feature.
E 7
D 9
.PP
E 9
I 9
.Pp
E 9
The
D 9
.I gecos
E 9
I 9
.Ar gecos
E 9
field normally contains comma (``,'') separated subfields as follows:
D 9
.PP
.RS
 name		user's full name
 office		user's office number
 wphone		user's work phone number
 hphone		user's home phone number
.RE
.PP
E 9
I 9
.Pp
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
name		user's full name
office		user's office number
wphone		user's work phone number
hphone		user's home phone number
.Ed
.Pp
E 9
This information is used by the
D 9
.IR finger (1)
E 9
I 9
.Xr finger 1
E 9
program.
D 9
.PP
The user's home directory is the full UNIX path name where the user
E 9
I 9
.Pp
The user's home directory is the full
.Tn UNIX
path name where the user
E 9
will be placed on login.
D 9
.PP
E 9
I 9
.Pp
E 9
The shell field is the command interpreter the user prefers.
D 9
If the
.I shell
field is empty, the Bourne shell (\fI/bin/sh\fP) is assumed.
E 5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 5
getpwent(3), login(1), crypt(3), passwd(1), group(5), chfn(1), finger(1),
vipw(8), adduser(8)
E 5
I 5
chpass(1), login(1), passwd(1), getpwent(3), mkpasswd(8), vipw(8) adduser(8)
E 5
.SH BUGS
E 9
I 9
If there is nothing in the
.Ar shell
field, the Bourne shell
.Pq Pa /bin/sh
is assumed.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr chpass 1 ,
.Xr login 1 ,
.Xr passwd 1 ,
.Xr getpwent 3 ,
.Xr adduser 8 ,
.Xr pwd_mkdb 8 ,
.Xr vipw 8
.Sh BUGS
E 9
D 4
A binary indexed file format should be available for fast access.
.PP
E 4
D 5
User information (name, office, etc.) should be stored elsewhere.
E 5
I 5
User information should (and eventually will) be stored elsewhere.
I 10
.Sh COMPATIBILITY
The password file format has changed since 4.3BSD.
The following awk script can be used to convert your old-style password
file into a new style password file.
The additional fields
.Dq class ,
.Dq change
and
.Dq expire
are added, but are turned off by default.
Class is currently not implemented, but change and expire are; to set them,
use the current day in seconds from the epoch + whatever number of seconds
of offset you want.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
BEGIN { FS = ":"}
{ print $1 ":" $2 ":" $3 ":" $4 "::0:0:" $5 ":" $6 ":" $7 }
.Ed
E 10
I 9
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm
file format appeared in
.At v6 .
E 9
E 5
E 1
