h19427
s 00001/00004/00170
d D 4.8 93/06/18 00:54:20 mckusick 8 7
c update format to make getNAME work
e
s 00064/00007/00110
d D 4.7 93/05/27 14:23:08 bostic 7 6
c new version from Dain Samples; checked in by TK
e
s 00001/00001/00116
d D 4.6 86/05/25 16:19:07 mckusick 6 5
c update for 4.3
e
s 00001/00003/00116
d D 4.5 86/05/10 20:14:48 mckusick 5 4
c format
e
s 00002/00002/00117
d D 4.4 85/09/10 12:37:00 mckusick 4 3
c bmac moves to /usr/new/lib
e
s 00020/00013/00099
d D 4.3 83/09/09 21:09:06 garrison 3 2
c add changes from new version from Arizona
e
s 00027/00026/00085
d D 4.2 83/09/09 21:07:18 nicklin 2 1
c 
e
s 00111/00000/00000
d D 4.1 83/07/03 19:40:43 sam 1 0
c date and time created 83/07/03 19:40:43 by sam
e
u
U
t
T
I 3
D 7
.\"	"%W%	%G%";
E 3
I 1
D 2
.TH bib/listrefs 1 local
E 2
I 2
D 6
.TH BIB 1 "28 July 1983"
E 6
I 6
.TH BIB 1 "%Q%" "Univ of Arizona"
E 7
I 7
.\"     "%W%    %G%";
.TH BIB 1 "2 September 1988" "Univ. of Arizona"
E 7
E 6
.UC 4
E 2
.SH NAME
D 2
bib - bibliographic formatter
E 2
I 2
D 5
bib \- bibliographic formatter
E 2
.br
D 2
listrefs - list bibliographic reference items
E 2
I 2
listrefs \- list bibliographic reference items
E 5
I 5
D 7
bib, listrefs \- bibliographic formatter; list bibliographic reference items
E 7
I 7
D 8
bib, listrefs, bibinc, bib2tib \- bibliographic formatter; 
list bibliographic reference items;
maintain files of predefined abbreviations;
convert bib-style macro calls to TiB-style
E 8
I 8
bib, listrefs, bibinc, bib2tib \- bibliographic formatter
E 8
E 7
E 5
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbib\fP [options] ...
.br
\fBlistrefs\fP [options] ...
I 7
.br
\fBbibinc\fP [options] ...
E 7
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIBib\fP is a preprocessor for \fInroff\fP or \fItroff\fP(1) that
formats citations and bibliographies.  The input files (standard input
default) are copied to the standard output, except for text between [. and .]
pairs, which are assumed to be keywords for searching a bibliographic database.
If a matching reference is found a citation is generated replacing the text.
References are collected, optionally sorted, and written out at a location
specified by the user.
D 2
Citation and reference formats are controlled by the -t option.
E 2
I 2
Citation and reference formats are controlled by the \-t option.
E 2
.PP
Reference databases are created using the \fIinvert\fP utility.
.PP
The following options are available.
D 2
Note that standard format styles (see the -t option) set options automatically.
E 2
I 2
Note that standard format styles (see the \-t option) set options automatically.
E 2
D 3
Thus if a standard format style is used, the user need not indicate any
E 3
I 3
Thus if a standard format style is used the user need not indicate any
E 3
further options for most documents.
D 2
.IP -aa 8m
E 2
I 2
.IP \-aa 8m
E 2
reduce author\*(CQs first names to abbreviations.
D 2
.IP -ar\fInum\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP \-ar\fInum\fP
E 2
D 3
reverse the first \fInum\fP author\*(CQs names
E 3
I 3
reverse the first \fInum\fP author's names.
If a number is not given all authors names are reversed.
E 3
D 2
.IP -ax
E 2
I 2
.IP \-ax
E 2
print authors last names in Caps-Small Caps style.  For example Budd becomes
B\s-2UDD\s+2.  This style is used by certain ACM publications.
D 2
.IP -ea 8m
E 2
I 2
D 3
.IP \-ea 8m
E 2
reduce editor\*(CQs first names to abbreviations.
D 2
.IP -er\fInum\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP \-er\fInum\fP
E 2
reverse the first \fInum\fP editor\*(CQs names
D 2
.IP -ex
E 2
I 2
.IP \-ex
E 2
print editors last names in Caps-Small Caps style.
E 3
D 2
.IP -c\fIstr\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP \-c\fIstr\fP
E 2
build citations according to the template \fIstr\fP.  See the reference
format designer\*(CQs guide for more information on templates.
I 7
.IP \-d
changes the default search directory for style files, include files, etc.
and changes the value of the macro BMACLIB for bib, and of the macro l]
used to find the troff macro definition file bmac.std.
Defaults to /usr/new/lib/bmac.  If you have your own private copies of all the
necessary files, using this option is the easiest way to specify them.
E 7
I 3
.IP \-ea
D 7
reduce editors first names to abbreviations.
E 7
I 7
reduce editors' first names to abbreviations.
E 7
.IP \-ex
D 7
print editors last names in Caps-Small Caps style (see \-ax option).
E 7
I 7
print editors' last names in Caps-Small Caps style (see \-ax option).
E 7
.IP \-er\fInum\fP
D 7
reverse the first \fInum\fP editors names.  If a number is not given all
editors names are reversed.
E 7
I 7
reverse the first \fInum\fP editors' names.  If a number is not given all
editors' names are reversed.
E 7
E 3
D 2
.IP -f
E 2
I 2
.IP \-f
E 2
instead of collecting references, dump each
reference immediately following the line on which the citation is placed
(used for footnoted references).
D 2
.IP "-i \fIfile\fP"
E 2
I 2
.IP "\-i \fIfile\fP"
E 2
.ns
D 2
.IP  -i\fIfile\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP  \-i\fIfile\fP
E 2
process the indicated file, such as a file of definitions.
(see technical report for a description of file format).
D 2
.IP -h
E 2
I 2
.IP \-h
E 2
replace citations to three or more adjacent reference items with
a hyphenated string (eg 2,3,4,5 becomes 2-5).
I 3
This option implies the \-o option.
E 3
D 2
.IP -n\fIstr\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP \-n\fIstr\fP
E 2
turn off indicated options.  \fIstr\fP must be composed of the letters afhosx.
D 2
.IP -o
E 2
I 2
.IP \-o
E 2
contiguous citations are ordered according the the reference list before
being printed (default).
D 2
.IP "-p \fIfile\fP"
E 2
I 2
.IP "\-p \fIfile\fP"
E 2
.ns
D 2
.IP  -p\fIfile\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP  \-p\fIfile\fP
E 2
instead of searching the file INDEX,
D 3
search the indicated reference file before searching the system file.
E 3
I 3
search the indicated reference files before searching the system file.
\fIfiles\fP is a comma separated list of inverted indices, created using
the \fIinvert\fP utility.
E 3
D 2
.IP -s\fIstr\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP \-s\fIstr\fP
E 2
sort references according to the template \fIstr\fP.
D 2
.IP "-t \fItype\fP"
E 2
I 2
.IP "\-t \fItype\fP"
E 2
.ns
D 2
.IP -t\fItype\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP \-t\fItype\fP
E 2
use the standard macros and switch settings for the indicated style
to generate citations and references.
D 3
There are a number of standard styles provided.  In addition the user
E 3
I 3
There are a number of standard styles provided.  In addition users
E 3
can generate their own style macros.  See the format designers guide for
D 3
more details.
E 3
I 3
details.
I 7
.IP \-Tib
the abbreviations and macros used all use the TiB style of macro call in 
which the name is enclosed in vertical |bars|.
.IP \-Tibx
instead of processing the input files, write the file bib.m4.in
containing m4(I) macro definitions
that make converting from bib style to Tib style macros a little easier.
Note that m4 does not allow ampersands in macro names: this file and all
of the files to be converted will have to be changed by hand.  The m4 macros
will \fIonly\fP identify words that bib would normally expand: they do no
other conversions.  After creating .bib.m4.in, run the scriptfile bib2tib 
passing
it the names of the files you wish converted.
E 7
E 3
.PP
D 3
\fIListrefs\fP formats an entire format file.  Options to \fIlistrefs\fP
are the same as for \fIbib\fP.  Items in the format file are not sorted.
E 3
I 3
\fIListrefs\fP formats an entire reference database file.
Options to \fIlistrefs\fP
are the same as for \fIbib\fP.
E 3
.PP
I 7
\fIBibinc\fP is an od hack tool for solving the problem of multiple define
files for multiple styles.  Some journal styles require that journal names 
be spelled out completely, while others allow abbreviated names.  Two
macro definition files are available that allow this multiplicity of
style: bibinc.fullnames and bibinc.shortnames.  A frequent source of
error is updating one of these files, and forgetting to update the
other.  \fIBibinc\fP allows a single file, say bibinc.names, to define
both the long and the short versions of names, and from which the files
bibinc.fullnames and bibinc.shortnames can easily be created.
\fIBibinc\fP can also be used to define macro files for the TiB
bibliographic preprocessor.
.PP
\fIBib2tib\fP will use the bib.m4.in file created with the -Tibx option
to convert any files you specify into one using the TiB-style macro conventions.
It is a simple script that does about 95% of the necessary grunge work
to make this conversion, but be aware that the user will still need to
eyeball the converted files for correctness.  To make use of the
facility, run a \fIbib\fP job with the -Tibx option: \fIbib\fP will not
process the input files, but will create bib.m4.in instead, after
gathering together all the definitions it can find. Then for each of
your bibliographic database files, run \fIbibinc\fP.
.PP
E 7
D 2
\fIBib\fP was designed initially for use with the -ms macros, and
uses a couple of the -ms macros (.ip and .lp) in its macro definitions.
To use it with the -me macros, prefix the file being sent to nroff/troff
E 2
I 2
\fIBib\fP was designed initially for use with the \-ms macros, and
uses a couple of the \-ms macros (.ip and .lp) in its macro definitions.
To use it with the \-me macros, prefix the file being sent to nroff/troff
E 2
with the following macro definitions:
.nf
.in +1.0i
\&.de IP
\&.ip \\$1 \\$2
\&..
\&.de LP
\&.lp
\&..
.fi
.in -1.0i
.PP
A file "bibmac.me" containing these macro
D 4
definitions may be found in /usr/lib/bmac.
E 4
I 4
definitions may be found in /usr/new/lib/bmac.
E 4
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
INDEX	inverted index for reference database
.br
/usr/dict/papers/INDEX	default system index
.br
D 4
/usr/lib/bmac/bmac.*	formatting macro packages
E 4
I 4
/usr/new/lib/bmac/bmac.*	formatting macro packages
E 4
.br
I 7
/usr/new/lib/bmac/bibinc.names	input to \fIbibinc\fP
.br
/usr/new/lib/bmac/tibmacs/*	for use with TiB-style |macros|
.br
/usr/new/lib/bmac/bibmacs/*	for use with old bib-style macros
.br
E 7
/usr/tmp/bibr*	scratch file for collecting references
.br
/usr/tmp/bibp*	output of pass one of bib
I 7
.br
bib.m4.in	macros for converting to TiB (see -Tibx above)
E 7
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIA UNIX Bibliographic Database Facility\fP, Timothy A. Budd and Gary M. Levin,
University of Arizona Technical Report 82-1, 1982.
(includes format designers guide).
I 7
.br
BIB \- A Program for Formatting Bibliographies, Timothy A. Budd, a BSD UNIX 
document found in /usr/doc/usd/31.bib.
E 7
.br
invert(1), troff(1)
E 1
