h01061
s 00026/00027/00051
d D 6.4 91/05/06 01:27:31 cael 7 6
c mdoc version three
e
s 00002/00000/00076
d D 6.3 91/03/14 00:13:10 cael 6 4
c add .Vx so tmac.andoc will call tmac.mdoc-old
e
s 00001/00000/00076
d R 6.3 91/03/13 20:31:04 cael 5 4
c add .Vx so tmac.andoc will call tmac.mdoc-old
e
s 00051/00031/00025
d D 6.2 90/06/24 19:08:03 cael 4 3
c converted man page
e
s 00001/00001/00055
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:30:23 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00005/00055
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:30:05 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00060/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:29:52 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 4
I 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 4
.\"
D 4
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 4
I 4
D 7
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 7
I 7
.\" %sccs.include.redist.roff%
E 7
E 4
.\"
D 2
.TH LISP 1 10/1/80
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH LISP 1 "1 October 1980"
E 3
I 3
D 4
.TH LISP 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
lisp \- lisp interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lisp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lisp
E 4
I 4
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
I 6
D 7
.Vx
.Vx
E 7
E 6
.Dd %Q%
.Dt LISP 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm lisp
.Nd lisp interpreter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm lisp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Lisp
E 4
is a lisp interpreter for a dialect which
D 4
closely resembles MIT's M\s-2ACLISP\s0.
This lisp, known as F\s-2RANZ\s0\ L\s-2ISP\s0, features
E 4
I 4
D 7
closely resembles MIT's MACLISP.
This lisp, known as FRANZ
LISP, features
E 4
an I/O facility which allows the user to change the input
E 7
I 7
closely resembles 
.Tn MIT Ns 's
.Tn MACLISP .
This lisp, known as
.Tn FRANZ LISP ,
features
an
.Tn I/O
facility which allows the user to change the input
E 7
and output syntax, add
macro characters, and maintain compatibility with upper-case
only lisp systems;
infinite precision integer arithmetic, and
D 4
an error facility which allows the user to trap system errors in 
E 4
I 4
an error facility which allows the user to trap system errors in
E 4
many different ways.
Interpreted functions may be mixed with code compiled by
D 4
.IR liszt (1)
E 4
I 4
.Xr liszt  1
E 4
and both may be debugged using the
``Joseph Lister'' trace package.
A
D 4
.I lisp
E 4
I 4
.Nm lisp
E 4
containing compiled and interpreted code may be dumped into
a file for later use.
D 4
.LP
E 4
I 4
.Pp
E 4
There are too many functions to list here; one should refer to the
manuals listed below.
D 4
.SH AUTHORS
E 4
I 4
D 7
.Sh AUTHORS
E 4
An early version was written by Jeff Levinsky, Mike Curry, and John Breedlove.
Keith Sklower wrote and is maintaining the current version,
with the assistance of John Foderaro.
The garbage collector was implemented by Bill Rowan.
E 7
D 4
.SH FILES
.ta 2.4i
D 2
/usr/lib/lisp/auxfns0.l	common functions
.br
/usr/lib/lisp/auxfns1.l	less common functions
.br
E 2
/usr/lib/lisp/trace.l	Joseph Lister trace package
E 4
I 4
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Nm Lisp
checks these
environment variables;
.Ev PATH ,
.Ev SHELL
and
.Ev TERM .
.Sh FILES
D 7
.Dw /usr/lib/lisp/toplevel.l
.Di L
.Dp Pa /usr/lib/lisp/trace.l
Joseph Lister trace package
.Dp Pa /usr/lib/lisp/toplevel.l
top level read-eval-print loop
.Dp
E 7
I 7
.Bl -tag -width /usr/lib/lisp/toplevel.l -compact
.It Pa /usr/lib/lisp/trace.l
Joseph Lister trace package.
.It Pa /usr/lib/lisp/toplevel.l
Top level read-eval-print loop.
.El
E 7
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr liszt 1 ,
.Xr lxref 1
E 4
D 7
.br
D 4
/usr/lib/lisp/toplevel.l	top level read-eval-print loop
.SH SEE ALSO
liszt(1), 
lxref(1)
E 4
I 4
.Em FRANZ LISP  Manual,
Version 1
by John K.
Foderaro
E 4
.br
D 4
`F\s-2RANZ\s0\ L\s-2ISP\s0  Manual, Version 1'
by John K. Foderaro
.br
M\s-2ACLISP\s0 Manual
.SH "BUGS"
E 4
I 4
MACLISP Manual
E 7
I 7
.Rs
.%T "\\*(tNFRANZ LISP\\*(sP Manual"
.%N Version 1
.%A John K. Foderaro
.Re
.Rs
.%T "\\*(tNMACLISP\\*(sP Manual"
.Re
E 7
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm Lisp
D 7
appeared in 3 BSD.
E 7
I 7
appeared in
.Bx 3.0 .
E 7
.Sh BUGS
E 4
The error system is in a state of flux and not all error messages are
as informative as they could be.
E 1
