h65148
s 00047/00042/00081
d D 6.4 91/05/06 01:27:32 cael 7 6
c mdoc version three
e
s 00002/00000/00121
d D 6.3 91/03/14 00:13:18 cael 6 4
c add .Vx so tmac.andoc will call tmac.mdoc-old
e
s 00001/00000/00121
d R 6.3 91/03/13 20:31:09 cael 5 4
c add .Vx so tmac.andoc will call tmac.mdoc-old
e
s 00083/00076/00038
d D 6.2 90/06/24 19:08:13 cael 4 3
c converted man page
e
s 00001/00001/00113
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:30:50 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00007/00001/00107
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:30:39 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00108/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:30:31 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 4
I 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 4
.\"
D 4
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 4
I 4
D 7
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 7
I 7
.\" %sccs.include.redist.roff%
E 7
E 4
.\"
D 2
.TH LISZT 1 10/1/80
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH LISZT 1 "1 October 1980"
E 3
I 3
D 4
.TH LISZT 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
liszt \- compile a Franz Lisp program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B liszt
[
.B \-mpqruwxCQST
] [
I 2
.B \-e
form
] [
E 2
.B \-o
objfile
]  [ name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Liszt
takes a file whose names ends in `.l' and compiles the F\s-2RANZ\s0 L\s-2ISP\s0
E 4
I 4
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
I 6
D 7
.Vx
.Vx
E 7
E 6
.Dd %Q%
.Dt LISZT 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm liszt
.Nd compile a Franz Lisp program
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm liszt
.Op Fl mpqruwxCQST
.Op Fl e Ar form
.Op Fl o Ar objfile
.Op Ar name
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Liszt
D 7
takes a file whose names ends in `.l' and compiles the FRANZ
LISP
E 7
I 7
takes a file whose names ends in `.l' and compiles the
.Tn FRANZ LISP
E 7
E 4
code there leaving an object program on the file whose name is that of the
source with `.o' substituted for `.l'.
D 4
.PP
E 4
I 4
.Pp
E 4
The following options are interpreted by
D 4
.I liszt.
I 2
.TP
.B \-e
E 4
I 4
.Nm liszt .
D 7
.Tw Fl
.Tp Fl e
E 7
I 7
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl e
E 7
E 4
Evaluate the given form before compilation begins.
E 2
D 4
.TP
.B \-m
Compile a M\s-2ACLISP\s0 file, by changing the readtable to conform to
\s-2MACLISP\s0 syntax and including a macro-defined compatibility package.
.TP
.B \-o
E 4
I 4
D 7
.Tp Fl m
Compile a MACLISP
E 7
I 7
.It Fl m
Compile a
.Tn MACLISP
E 7
file, by changing the readtable to conform to
D 7
MACLISP
E 7
I 7
.Tn MACLISP
E 7
syntax and including a macro-defined compatibility package.
D 7
.Tp Fl o
E 7
I 7
.It Fl o
E 7
E 4
Put the object code in the specified file, rather than the default `.o' file.
D 4
.TP
.B \-p
E 4
I 4
D 7
.Tp Fl p
E 7
I 7
.It Fl p
E 7
E 4
places profiling code at the beginning of each non-local function.
If the lisp system is also created with profiling in it, this allows
function calling frequency to be determined (see
D 4
.IR prof (1).)
.TP
.B \-q
E 4
I 4
.Xr prof  1  . )
D 7
.Tp Fl q
E 7
I 7
.It Fl q
E 7
E 4
Only print warning and error messages.
Compilation statistics and notes on correct but unusual constructs
will not be printed.
D 4
.TP
.B \-r
E 4
I 4
D 7
.Tp Fl r
E 7
I 7
.It Fl r
E 7
E 4
place bootstrap code at the beginning of the object file, which when
the object file is executed will cause a lisp system to be invoked
and the object file fasl'ed in.
D 4
.TP
.B \-u
E 4
I 4
D 7
.Tp Fl u
E 4
Compile a UCI-lispfile, by changing the readtable to conform to
UCI-Lisp syntax and including a macro-defined compatibility package.
D 4
.TP
.B \-w
E 4
I 4
.Tp Fl w
E 7
I 7
.It Fl u
Compile a
.Tn UCI Ns -lispfile ,
by changing the readtable to conform to
.Tn UCI Ns -Lisp
syntax and including a macro-defined compatibility package.
.It Fl w
E 7
E 4
Suppress warning diagnostics.
D 4
.TP
.B \-x
E 4
I 4
D 7
.Tp Fl x
E 7
I 7
.It Fl x
E 7
E 4
Create a lisp cross reference file with the same name as the source
file but with  `.x' appended.
D 4
The program 
.IR lxref (1) 
E 4
I 4
The program
.Xr lxref  1
E 4
reads this file and creates a human readable cross
reference listing.
D 4
.TP
.B \-C
E 4
I 4
D 7
.Tp Fl C
E 4
put comments in the assembler output of the compiler. Useful
for debugging the compiler.
D 4
.TP
.B -Q
E 4
I 4
.Tp Fl Q
E 7
I 7
.It Fl C
put comments in the assembler output of the compiler.
Useful for debugging the compiler.
.It Fl Q
E 7
E 4
Print compilation statistics and warn of strange constructs.
D 4
This is the default. 
.TP
.B \-S
E 4
I 4
This is the default.
D 7
.Tp Fl S
E 7
I 7
.It Fl S
E 7
E 4
Compile the named program and leave the assembler-language output on
the corresponding file suffixed `.s'.
This will also prevent the assembler language file from being assembled.
D 4
.TP
.B \-T
E 4
I 4
D 7
.Tp Fl T
E 7
I 7
.It Fl T
E 7
E 4
send the assembler output to standard output.
D 4
.PP
If 
E 4
I 4
D 7
.Tp
E 7
I 7
.El
E 7
.Pp
If
E 4
no source file is specified, then the compiler will run interactively.
D 4
You will find yourself talking to the 
.IR lisp (1)
E 4
I 4
You will find yourself talking to the
.Xr lisp  1
E 4
top-level command interpreter.
You can compile a file by using the
function
D 4
.I liszt 
E 4
I 4
.Nm liszt
E 4
(an nlambda) with the same arguments as you use on the command line.
D 4
For example to compile `foo', a M\s-2ACLISP\s0 file, you would use:
.IP
(liszt \-m foo)
.PP
E 4
I 4
D 7
For example to compile `foo', a MACLISP
E 7
I 7
For example to compile `foo', a
.Tn MACLISP
E 7
file, you would use:
I 7
.Bd -literal -offset indent
(liszt \-m foo)
.Ed
E 7
.Pp
D 7
.Dl (liszt \-m foo)
.Pp
E 7
E 4
Note that
D 4
.I liszt
E 4
I 4
.Nm liszt
E 4
supplies the ``.l'' extension for you.
D 4
.SH FILES
.ta 2.4i
.nf
/usr/lib/lisp/machacks.l	M\s-2ACLISP\s0 compatibility package
/usr/lib/lisp/syscall.l	macro definitions of Unix system calls 
/usr/lib/lisp/ucifnc.l	UCI Lisp compatibility package
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
E 4
I 4
.Sh FILES
D 7
.Dw /usr/lib/lisp/machacks.l
.Di L
.Dp Pa /usr/lib/lisp/machacks.l
MACLISP
compatibility package
.Dp Pa /usr/lib/lisp/syscall.l
macro definitions of Unix system calls
.Dp Pa /usr/lib/lisp/ucifnc.l
UCI Lisp compatibility package
.Dp
.Sh AUTHOR
E 4
John Foderaro
E 7
I 7
.Bl -tag -width /usr/lib/lisp/machacks.l -compact
.It Pa /usr/lib/lisp/machacks.l
.Tn MACLISP
compatibility package.
.It Pa /usr/lib/lisp/syscall.l
Macro definitions of
.Ux
system calls.
.It Pa /usr/lib/lisp/ucifnc.l
.Tn UCI
Lisp compatibility package.
.El
E 7
D 4
.SH SEE ALSO
lisp(1), lxref(1)
E 4
I 4
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lisp 1 ,
.Xr lxref 1
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Nm Liszt
checks these
environment variables;
.Ev PATH ,
.Ev SHELL
and
.Ev TERM .
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm Lisp
D 7
appeared in 3 BSD.
E 7
I 7
appeared in
.Bx 3.0 .
E 7
E 4
E 1
