h22165
s 00070/00061/00016
d D 6.3 91/05/06 01:30:28 cael 6 4
c mdoc version three/bsd copyright (was never proprietary)
e
s 00070/00061/00016
d R 6.3 91/05/06 01:27:33 cael 5 4
c mdoc version three
e
s 00003/00003/00074
d D 6.2 90/06/24 19:11:08 cael 4 3
c converted man page
e
s 00001/00001/00076
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:33:32 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00038/00004/00039
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:33:23 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00043/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:33:16 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
E 4
I 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 Regents of the University of California.
E 4
D 6
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 6
I 6
.\" All rights reserved.
E 6
.\"
D 4
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 4
I 4
D 6
.\"		%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 6
I 6
.\" %sccs.include.redist.roff%
E 6
E 4
.\"
D 2
.TH LXREF 1 9/24/80
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH LXREF 1 "24 September 1980"
E 3
I 3
D 4
.TH LXREF 1 "%Q%"
E 4
I 4
D 6
.TH LXREF 1 "%Q"
E 4
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
lxref \- lisp cross reference program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lxref
[
.B \-N
D 2
] file ...
E 2
I 2
] xref-file ...
[ 
.B \-a 
source-file ... ]
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lxref
reads cross reference file(s) written by the lisp compiler 
.I liszt
E 6
I 6
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt LXREF 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm lxref
.Nd lisp cross reference program
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm lxref
.Op Fl Ns Ar N
.Ar xref\-file ...
.Op Fl a Ar source\-file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Lxref
reads cross reference file(s) written by the lisp compiler
.Xr liszt 1
E 6
and prints a cross reference listing on the standard output.
D 6
.I Liszt
will create a cross reference file during compilation when it is 
E 6
I 6
.Xr Liszt 1
will create a cross reference file during compilation when it is
E 6
D 2
given the \-x switch.
E 2
I 2
given the
D 6
.B \-x
E 6
I 6
.Fl x
E 6
switch.
E 2
D 6
Cross reference files usually end in `.x' and consequently
.I lxref
will append a `.x' to the file names given if necessary.
D 2
The one option to 
E 2
I 2
The first option to 
E 2
.I lxref
is a decimal integer, N, which sets the 
.I ignorelevel.
If a function is called more than 
.I ignorelevel 
times, the cross reference listing will just print the number of calls 
E 6
I 6
Cross reference files usually end in
.Pa \&.x
and consequently
.Nm lxref
will append a
.Pa \&.x
to the file names given if necessary.
.Pp
Options and arguments:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl Ar N
The value
.Ar N
(a decimal integer)
sets the
.Em ignorelevel .
If a function is called more than
.Em ignorelevel
times, the cross reference listing will just print the number of calls
E 6
instead of listing each one of them.
The default for
D 6
.I ignorelevel 
E 6
I 6
.Em ignorelevel
E 6
is 50.
I 2
D 6
.PP
The 
.B \-a
option causes 
.I lxref
to put limited cross reference information in the sources named.
.I lxref
E 6
I 6
.It Fl a Ar source(s)
Put limited cross reference information in the
.Ar source(s)
named.
.Nm lxref
E 6
will scan the source and when it comes across a definition of a function
D 6
(that is a line beginning with 
.I "`(def'"
it will preceed that line with a list of the functions which call this 
function, written as a comment preceeded by 
.I "`;.. '".
E 6
I 6
(that is a line beginning with
.Li "`(def'"
it will preceed that line with a list of the functions which call this
function, written as a comment preceeded by
.Li "`;.. '".
E 6
All existing lines beginning with
D 6
.I "`;.. '"
E 6
I 6
.Li "`;.. '"
E 6
will be removed from the file.
If the source file contains a line beginning
D 6
.I "`;.-'"
then this will disable this annotation process from this point on until a 
.I "`;.+'"
is seen (however, lines beginning with 
.I "`;.. '"
E 6
I 6
.Li "`;.-'"
then this will disable this annotation process from this point on until a
.Li "`;.+'"
is seen (however, lines beginning with
.Li "`;.. '"
E 6
will continue to be deleted).
After the annoation is done, the original file
D 6
.I "`foo.l'"
E 6
I 6
.Pa foo.l
E 6
is renamed to
D 6
.I `#.foo.l'"
and the new file with annotation is named 
.I "`foo.l'"
E 2
.SH AUTHOR
John Foderaro
.SH SEE ALSO
lisp(1),
liszt(1)
.SH BUGS
E 6
I 6
.Pa #.foo.l
and the new file with annotation is named
.Pa foo.l
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lisp 1 ,
.Xr liszt 1
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm Lxref
appeared in
.Bx 4.0 .
E 6
E 1
