h35280
s 00002/00002/00069
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:21:44 bostic 10 9
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00003/00002/00068
d D 6.7 91/08/07 01:06:35 cael 9 8
c fix bogus macro and history
e
s 00003/00000/00067
d D 6.6 91/06/27 17:14:13 bostic 8 7
c add POSIX/IEEE contribution notice
e
s 00015/00016/00052
d D 6.5 91/06/17 12:53:33 bostic 7 6
c cleanups, wordsmithiing
e
s 00018/00033/00050
d D 6.4 91/06/17 12:43:42 bostic 6 5
c minor cleanups
e
s 00002/00002/00081
d D 6.3 90/07/24 22:42:02 cael 5 4
c .Xr botch fix
e
s 00081/00035/00002
d D 6.2 90/06/11 05:53:56 cael 4 3
c converted man page
e
s 00001/00001/00036
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:17:45 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00036
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:17:38 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00037/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:17:31 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 4
I 4
D 10
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 10
I 10
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 10
E 4
.\"
I 8
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
E 8
D 4
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 4
I 4
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 4
.\"
D 2
.TH CD 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH CD 1 "5 April 1980"
E 3
I 3
D 4
.TH CD 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
cd \- change working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cd
directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Directory
becomes the new working directory.
The process must have execute (search)
permission in
.IR directory .
.PP
Because a new process is created to execute each command,
.I cd
would be ineffective if it were written as a
normal command.  It is therefore recognized and executed
by the shells.
In
.IR csh (1)
you may specify a list of directories in which
.I directory
is to be sought as a subdirectory if it is not
a subdirectory of the current directory;
see the description of the
.I cdpath
variable in
.IR csh (1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
csh(1), sh(1), pwd(1), chdir(2)
E 4
I 4
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt CD 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm cd
.Nd change working directory
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm cd
.Ar directory
.Sh DESCRIPTION
D 6
The cd utility changes the working directory
to
.Ar directory .
.Pp
D 5
.The
E 5
I 5
The
E 5
.Ar directory
is an absolute or relative pathname
which becomes the new working directory.
The
interpretation of a relative pathname by cd depends
on the CDPATH environment variable (see below).
.Pp
E 6
I 6
.Ar Directory
is an absolute or relative pathname which becomes the new working
directory.
The interpretation of a relative pathname by cd depends on the CDPATH
environment variable (see below).
E 6
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
D 6
The following environment variables affect the execution of
cd:
E 6
I 6
The following environment variables affect the execution of cd:
E 6
.Pp
D 5
.Tw Ar
E 5
I 5
D 7
.Tw Fl
E 5
.Tp Ev HOME
If
.Nm cd
D 6
is
invoked without arguments, the
E 6
I 6
is invoked without arguments, the
E 6
.Ev HOME
D 6
environment variable is checked for a default
directory name. If
E 6
I 6
environment variable is checked for a default directory name.
If
E 6
.Ev HOME
D 6
exists and contains
a directory name,
that directory becomes the new working directory.
E 6
I 6
exists and contains a directory name, that directory becomes the new
working directory.
E 6
.Tp Ev CDPATH
E 7
I 7
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ev CDPATH
E 7
If the
.Ar directory
D 6
operand does not
begin with a slash (/) character, and the first
E 6
I 6
operand does not begin with a slash (/) character, and the first
E 6
component is not dot (.) or dot-dot (..),
.Nm cd
D 6
searches for
the directory relative to each directory named in the
E 6
I 6
searches for the directory relative to each directory named in the
E 6
.Ev CDPATH
variable, in the order listed.
D 6
The new
working directory is set to the first matching
directory found.
An empty string in place of a
directory pathname represents the current directory.
E 6
I 6
The new working directory is set to the first matching directory found.
An empty string in place of a directory pathname represents the current
directory.
E 6
D 7
.Nm Cd
D 6
will print the pathname of the new working directory if it
was an element of
E 6
I 6
will print the pathname of the new working directory if it was an element of
E 6
.Ev CDPATH .
E 7
I 7
If the new working directory was derived from
.Ev CDPATH ,
it will be printed to the standard output.
.It Ev HOME
If
.Nm cd
is invoked without arguments and the
.Ev HOME
environment variable exists and contains a directory name, that directory
becomes the new working directory.
.El
.Pp
E 7
See
.Xr csh 1
D 7
for info on environment variables.
E 7
I 7
for more information on environment variables.
E 7
D 9
.Tp
E 9
.Pp
The
.Nm cd
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr csh 1 ,
D 6
.Xr sh 1 ,
E 6
.Xr pwd 1 ,
I 6
.Xr sh 1 ,
E 6
.Xr chdir 2
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm cd
D 9
function is expected to be POSIX 1003.2 compatible.
E 9
I 9
command is expected to be
.St -p1003.2
compatible.
E 9
E 4
E 1
