h32264
s 00002/00002/00046
d D 8.2 93/12/30 15:38:36 mckusick 9 7
c copyediting for Usenix manuals
e
s 00000/00000/00048
d R 8.2 93/12/30 15:37:02 mckusick 8 7
c copyediting for Usenix manuals
e
s 00002/00002/00046
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:21:48 bostic 7 6
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00010/00009/00038
d D 6.4 91/05/06 18:28:04 cael 6 5
c mdoc version three/bsd copyright
e
s 00044/00042/00003
d D 6.3 91/04/30 17:50:11 bostic 5 4
c new version from Cynthia
e
s 00006/00002/00039
d D 6.2 90/06/24 19:06:00 cael 4 3
c converted man page
e
s 00001/00001/00040
d D 6.1 85/04/29 18:54:11 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00008/00020/00033
d D 5.1 85/04/29 18:53:44 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00053/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 18:53:15 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 4
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 4
I 4
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 5
I 5
D 7
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 7
I 7
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 7
E 5
E 4
.\"
I 5
.\" %sccs.include.redist.roff%
.\"
E 5
D 2
.TH INTRO 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH INTRO 1 "18 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
D 4
.TH INTRO 1 "%Q%"
E 4
I 4
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 5
.TH INTRO 1 "April 29, 1985"
E 4
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to commands
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
This section describes publicly accessible commands
in alphabetic order.
E 2
I 2
This section describes publicly accessible commands in alphabetic order.
E 2
Certain distinctions of purpose are made in the headings:
.TP
(1)
Commands of general utility.
.TP
(1C)
Commands for communication with other systems.
.TP
(1G)
Commands used primarily for graphics and computer-aided design.
.PP
D 2
N.B.: Commands related to system maintenance, which appeared in
section 1, distinguished by (1M), in previous versions of the manual
have been moved to section 8, as they are of little interest to most
users.
.PP
The word `VAX-11' at the foot of a page means that some or all
of the description applies only to the implementation for the
Digital Equipment Corporation VAX-11.
Pages added or changed between the distribution of UNIX/32V and the
Berkeley Distribution indicate `3rd Berkeley Distribution' or
`4th Berkeley Distribution' at the lower left, as appropriate.
E 2
I 2
N.B.: Commands related to system maintenance used to appear in
section 1 manual pages and were distinguished by (1M) at the top of the
page.  These manual pages now appear in section 8.
E 2
.SH SEE ALSO
D 2
Section (6) for computer games, section (8) for system maintenance
commands.
E 2
I 2
Section (6) for computer games.
E 2
.PP
.I How to get started,
in the Introduction.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon termination each command returns two bytes of status,
one supplied by the system giving the cause for
termination, and (in the case of `normal' termination)
D 2
one supplied by the program,
see
E 2
I 2
one supplied by the program, see
E 2
.I wait
and
.IR exit (2).
The former byte is 0 for normal termination, the latter
is customarily 0 for successful execution, nonzero
to indicate troubles such as erroneous parameters, bad or inaccessible data,
or other inability to cope with the task at hand.
It is called variously `exit code', `exit status' or
D 2
`return code', and is described only where special
conventions are involved.
E 2
I 2
`return code', and is described only where special conventions are involved.
E 5
I 5
.Dd %Q%
.Dt INTRO 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm intro
.Nd introduction to general commands (tools and utilities)
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Section one of the manual contains most of the commands
which comprise the
.Bx
D 6
enviroment.
These commands are text editors, command shells,
E 6
I 6
D 9
user enviroment.
E 9
I 9
user environment.
E 9
Some of the commands included in section one are
text editors, command shell interpreters,
E 6
searching and sorting tools,
I 6
file manipulation commands
E 6
system status commands,
D 6
communication tools (remote commands, mail),
E 6
I 6
remote file copy commands, mail commands,
E 6
compilers and compiler tools,
D 6
file manoevering commands, output formatting tools,
printer commands and so on.
E 6
I 6
formatted output tools,
and line printer commands.
E 6
.Pp
All commands set a status value upon exit which may be tested
to see if the command completed normally.
D 6
The values and their meanings are explained in the individual
manuals.  Traditionally, the value 0 signifies
normal completetion of the command or success.
E 6
I 6
The exit values and their meanings are explained in the individual
manuals.  Traditionally, the value 0 signifies successful
D 9
completetion of the command.
E 9
I 9
completion of the command.
E 9
E 6
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr man 1
.Xr intro 2
.Xr intro 3
.Xr intro 3
.Xr intro 4
.Xr intro 8
.Pp
Tutorials in the
.%T "UNIX User's Manual Supplementary Documents" .
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm intro
manual appeared in
.At v6 .
D 6

E 6
E 5
E 2
E 1
