h65191
s 00002/00002/00215
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:43:07 bostic 5 4
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00133/00092/00084
d D 6.4 91/03/27 23:30:50 cael 4 3
c macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00081/00093/00095
d D 6.3 88/06/13 18:00:26 karels 3 2
c disklabel xref'sa; new error formats with diskerr
e
s 00080/00221/00108
d D 6.2 87/06/30 21:22:25 sam 2 1
c update addresses to reflect change form 24 to 32 bit addresses 
c in config file; rewrite cy.4 and vd.4 as well as vx.4
e
s 00329/00000/00000
d D 6.1 86/11/24 18:23:40 mckusick 1 0
c from CCI
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1986 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 4
I 4
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1986, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 5
I 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1986, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 5
E 4
.\"
D 4
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 4
I 4
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 4
.\"
D 4
.TH VD 4 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
D 2
vd / (fsd, smd, xfd, fuj, xsd) \- versabus storage module controller/drives
E 2
I 2
vd \- VERSAbus storage module controller/drives
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.B "VD controller at vba addresses 0xf2[0-7]00"
E 2
I 2
.B "controller vd0 at vba? csr 0xffff2000 vector vdintr"
E 2
.br
D 2
.B "160 Mb FSD "
.br
.B "300 Mb SMD "
.br
.B "340 Mb XFD "
.br
.B "360 Mb FUJ "
.br
.B "515 Mb XSD "
E 2
I 2
.B "disk dk0 at vd0 drive 0"
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
This is a generic VERSABUS storage module disk driver for CCI's VD
controller.
E 2
I 2
This is a generic VERSAbus storage module disk driver for the
D 3
Computer Consoles smd and smd-e disk controllers.
E 3
I 3
Computer Consoles SMD (VDDC) and SMD-E disk controllers.
E 3
E 2
.PP
Files with minor device numbers 0 through 7 refer to various portions
of drive 0;
minor devices 8 through 15 refer to drive 1, etc.
D 2
The standard device names begin with `fsd, `smd', `fuj', `xfd',
or `xfd' followed by
E 2
I 2
The standard device names begin with ``dk'' followed by
E 2
the drive number and then a letter a-h for partitions 0-7 respectively.
D 2
The character ? stands here for a drive number in the range 0 - 1f (hex).
E 2
I 2
The character ? stands here for a drive number in the range 0-7.
E 2
.PP
The block files access the disk via the system's normal
buffering mechanism and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.  There is also a `raw' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
D 2
A single read or write call results in exactly one I/O operation
and therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
E 2
I 2
D 3
A single read or write call results in exactly one i/o operation
and therefore raw i/o is considerably more efficient when
E 3
I 3
A single read or write call results in exactly one I/O operation,
and therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
E 3
E 2
many words are transmitted.  The names of the raw files
conventionally begin with an extra `r.'
.PP
D 2
In raw I/O counts should be a multiple of 1024 bytes (a disk block).
E 2
I 2
D 3
In raw i/o counts should be a multiple of 1024 bytes (a disk block).
E 2
Likewise
E 3
I 3
In raw I/O counts should be a multiple of 1024 bytes,
E 4
I 4
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt VD 4 tahoe
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vd
.Nd
.Tn VERSAbus
storage module controller/drives
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "controller vd0 at vba? csr 0xffff2000 vector vdintr"
.Cd "disk dk0 at vd0 drive 0"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This is a generic
.Tn VERSAbus
storage module disk driver for the
Computer Consoles
.Tn SMD
.Pq Tn VDDC
and
.Tn SMD-E
disk controllers.
.Pp
The
.Nm vd
driver is a fairly typical block
.Tn I/O
device, except
raw block
.Tn I/O
counts must be a multiple of 1024 bytes,
E 4
whether the actual sector size is 512 or 1024 bytes.
Likewise,
E 3
D 4
.I seek
E 4
I 4
.Xr seek
E 4
calls should specify a multiple of 1024 bytes.
I 3
D 4
.PP
E 4
I 4
See
.Xr physio 4 .
.Pp
E 4
The first sector of each disk contains a disk label
containing geometry information and partition layouts (see
D 4
.IR disklabel (5).
E 4
I 4
.Xr disklabel 5 ) .
E 4
This sector is normally write-protected, and disk-to-disk copies should
avoid copying this sector.
The label may be updated with
D 4
.IR disklabel (8),
E 4
I 4
.Xr disklabel 8 ,
E 4
which can also be used to write-enable and write-disable the sector.
E 3
D 4
.SH "DISK SUPPORT"
E 4
I 4
.Sh DISK SUPPORT
E 4
D 3
The driver tries to access the last track on each drive
to determine the type of drive attached.  The driver recognizes
D 2
five different drives: CDC FSD (160 Mb), CDC 9766 (300 Mb),
CDC XFSD (340 Mb), CDC 515Mb, and Fujitsu 360 Mb.
E 2
I 2
six different drives: CDC FSD (160 MB), CDC 9766 (300 MB),
CDC XFSD (340 MB), CDC 515MB, Fujitsu 360 MB, and Fujitsu
Eagle (440 MB).
E 2
The origin and size of the pseudo-disks on each drive are
as follows:
E 3
I 3
During autoconfiguration,
as well as when a drive is opened after all partitions are closed,
the first sector of the drive is examined for a disk label.
If a label is found, the geometry of the drive and the partition tables
are taken from it.
If no label is found,
The driver checks for a disk label on sector 0 of each drive
during autoconfiguration.
If no label is found,
the driver tries to access the last track on each drive
to determine the type of drive attached.
The driver has default partition tables for
D 4
seven different drives: CDC FSD (160 MB), CDC 9766 (300 MB),
CDC XFSD (340 MB), CDC 515MB, Fujitsu 360 MB, Fujitsu Eagle (440 MB),
and Maxtor 340Mb.
E 4
I 4
seven different drives:
.Tn CDC FSD
(160
.Tn MB ) ,
.Tn CDC
9766 (300
.Tn MB ) ,
.Tn CDC XFSD
(340
.Tn MB ) ,
.Tn CDC
515
.Tn MB ,
Fujitsu 360
.Tn MB ,
Fujitsu Eagle (440
.Tn MB ) ,
and Maxtor 340
.Tn MB .
E 4
If the drive is not recognized, a single small partition is created
to allow a label to be written.
E 3
D 4
.PP
E 4
I 4
.Pp
E 4
D 3
.nf
.ta .5i +\w'000000    'u +\w'000000    'u +\w'000000    'u
FSD 160Mb drive partitions:
	disk	start	length	   cyl
	fsd?a	0	9600	  0 - 59
	fsd?b	9600	12000	 60 - 134
	fsd?c	21600	109280	135 - 817
	fsd?d	39840	91040	249 - 817
	fsd?e	58080	72800	363 - 817
	fsd?f	76320	54560	477 - 817
	fsd?g	94560	36320	591 - 817
	fsd?h	112800	18080	705 - 817
.PP
SMD (CDC 9766) 300Mb drive partitions:
	disk	start	length	   cyl
	smd?a	0	20064	  0 - 65
	smd?b	20064	13680	 66 - 110
	smd?c	33744	214928	111 - 817
	smd?d	69616	179056	229 - 817
	smd?e	105488	143184	347 - 817
	smd?f	141360	107312	465 - 817
	smd?g	177232	71440	583 - 817
	smd?h	213104	35568	701 - 817
.PP
XFD 340Mb drive partitions:
	disk	start	length	   cyl
	xfd?a	0	20352	  0 - 52
	xfd?b	20352	20352	 53 - 105
	xfd?c	40704	230400	106 - 705
	xfd?d	79104	192000	206 - 705
	xfd?e	117504	153600	306 - 705
	xfd?f	155904	115200	406 - 705
	xfd?g	194304	76800	506 - 705
	xfd?h	232704	38400	606 - 705
.PP
FUJ 360Mb drive partitions:
	disk	start	length	   cyl
	fuj?a	0	19200	  0 - 59
	fuj?b	19200	24000	 60 - 134
	fuj?c	43200	218560	135 - 817
	fuj?d	79680	182080 	249 - 817
	fuj?e	116160	145600	363 - 817
	fuj?f	152640	109120 	477 - 817
	fuj?g	189120	72640	591 - 817
	fuj?h	225600	36160	705 - 817
.PP
XSD 515Mb drive partitions:
	disk	start	length	   cyl
	xsd?a	0	30528	  0 - 52
	xsd?b	30528	30528	 53 - 105
	xsd?c	61056	345600	106 - 705
	xsd?d	118656	288000 	206 - 705
	xsd?e	176256	230400	306 - 705
	xsd?f	233856	172800 	406 - 705
	xsd?g	291456	115200	506 - 705
	xsd?h	349056	57600	606 - 705
.fi
.PP
It is unwise for all of these partitions to be present in one installation,
since there is overlap in addresses and protection becomes
a sticky matter.
The ?a partition is normally used for the root file system,
and the ?b partition as a paging area.
E 3
I 3
The partition tables in the disk label and the
D 4
.I disktab
E 4
I 4
.Pa disktab
E 4
file specify partition offsets and sizes in sectors, which are 512 bytes
D 4
on SMD drives and 1024 bytes on 5 1/4" ESDI drives.
E 4
I 4
on
.Tn SMD
drives and 1024 bytes on 5 1/4"
.Tn ESDI
drives.
E 4
By convention,
the ?a partition is normally used for the root file system or other small
file system,
and the ?b partition is used as a paging area.
E 3
The ?c partition maps the rest of the pack,
except the last 5 cylinders which are reserved for bad sector forwarding,
and diagnostic use.
D 4
.SH FILES
D 2
/dev/fsd[0-7][a-f]	fsd block files
E 2
I 2
/dev/dk[0-7][a-f]	dk block files
E 2
.br
D 2
/dev/rfsd[0-7][a-f]	fsd raw files
.br
/dev/smd[0-7][a-f]	smd block files
.br
/dev/rsmd[0-7][a-f]	smd raw files
.br
/dev/xfd[0-7][a-f]	xfd block files
.br
/dev/rxfd[0-7][a-f]	xfd raw files
.br
/dev/fuj[0-7][a-f]	fuj block files
.br
/dev/rfuj[0-7][a-f]	fuj raw files
.br
/dev/xsd[0-7][a-f]	xsd block files
.br
/dev/rxsd[0-7][a-f]	xsd raw files
.br
E 2
I 2
/dev/rdk[0-7][a-f]	dk raw files
E 2
.SH SEE ALSO
D 3
disktab(5)
E 3
I 3
disklabel(5), disklabel(8)
E 3
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
D 2
The driver prints out a number of error messages, indicating that
the error bit in the DCB'c op error status register was set.
The contents of the register are printed, as well as an indication
of the operation attempted and drive number.
The status word is displayed in hexadecimal, so
conversion to binary is up to the operator.
The meaning of the status word's bit fields are:
.sp 1
.in +3m
.nf
31                              0
+--------------------------------+
||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
+--------------------------------+
 ^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
 ||||| |||||||||||||||||||||||||+-- Header CRC error detected.
 ||||| ||||||||||||||||||||||||+--- Header compare error.
 ||||| |||||||||||||||||||||||+---- Disk write protected.
 ||||| ||||||||||||||||||||||+----- Controller fault.
 ||||| |||||||||||||||||||||+------ Disk seek error.
 ||||| ||||||||||||||||||||+------- Uncorrectable data error.
 ||||| |||||||||||||||||||+-------- Disk not on cylinder.
 ||||| ||||||||||||||||||+--------- Disk drive not ready.
 ||||| |||||||||||||||||+---------- Alternate track accessed.
 ||||| ||||||||||||||||+----------- Seek started.
 ||||| |||||||||||||||+------------ Invalid disk address issued.
 ||||| ||||||||||||||+------------- Non-existent memory error.
 ||||| |||||||||||||+-------------- Main memory parity error.
 ||||| ||||||||||||+--------------- Data compare error.
 ||||| |||||||||||+---------------- Drive is ready.
 ||||| ||||||||||+----------------- Operation aborted.
 ||||| |||||||||+------------------ Tried data strobe early.
 ||||| ||||||||+------------------- Tried data strobe late.
 ||||| |||||||+-------------------- Tried track offset plus.
 ||||| ||||||+--------------------- Tried track offset minus.
 ||||| |||||+---------------------- Controller performed data correction.
 ||||| ||||+----------------------- Uncorrected error happened (hard).
 ||||| |||+------------------------ Corrected error happened (soft).
 ||||| ||+------------------------- An error happened (hard or soft).
 ||||| |+-------------------------- Invalid command.
 ||||+-+--------------------------- unused.
 |||+------------------------------ DCB aborted by system.
 ||+------------------------------- Unsuccessful completion.
 |+-------------------------------- DCB completed.
 +--------------------------------- DCB started.
.fi
.in -3m
E 2
I 2
\fBvd%d: %s controller\fP.
E 4
I 4
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/dk[0-7][a-f]xx -compact
.It Pa /dev/dk[0-7][a-f]
dk block files
.It Pa /dev/rdk[0-7][a-f]
dk raw files
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It vd%d: %s controller.
E 4
This message is printed during autoconfiguration to identify
D 3
the type of controller, either ``smd'' or ``smde''.
E 3
I 3
D 4
the type of controller, either ``VDDC'' or ``SMDE''.
E 3
E 2
.PP
D 2
In addition, if the controller is an SMD-E controller then an error code
will also be printed.  The error codes are:
.sp 1
.in +3m
.nf
\fICode\fP		\fIMeaning\fP

\fICommand related errors\fP:

01		Bad MDCB pointer
02		Bad DCB pointer
03		Invalid command
04		Invalid disk address
05		Invalid sector in command
06		Gap specification error
07		sector per track error
08		bytes per sector error
09		Interleave error
0A		Invalid head address
0B		Invalid DMA burst count
0C		Invalid sector count
0D		Drive number out of range
0E		Too many total sectors


\fIHard errors\fP:

10		Disk not ready
11		Seek error
12		Disk write protected
13		Unit not selected (command sent to non-existent drive)
14		Seek error timeout
15		Fault timeout
16		Drive faulted
17		Ready timeout
18		Data Overrun
19		No index pulse on write format
1A		Sector not found
1B		Retry performed - Soft error
1C		Invalid sync in data field
1D		seek timeout error
1E		Busy timeout
1F		Not on cylinder
20		RTZ timeout
21		Unit not initialized
22		Seek error
23		Mapped header error
24		Header error - Sync word bad
25		Header error - Wrong cylinder address
26		Header error - Wrong head address
27		Header error - Pad word bad
28		Sector write protected
2A		Header check sum error
2B		Alternate track accessed
2C		Read time-out error
2D		On-cylinder timeout during offset adjust
2E		Good header found on defective track


\fIDMA transfer errors\fP

30		DMA bus error
31		DMA parity error
32		DMA timeout


\fIMiscellaneous errors\fP:

40		Track offset minus
41		Track offset plus
42		Data strobe early
43		Data strobe late
44		Drive ready
45		Data compare error
47		Alternate track accessed
48		Header CRC error
49		Uncorrectable error
4A		ECC code error - data field code
4B		Abort
4C		Out of buffer space
4D		Controller performed data correction
4E		Alternate track accessed


\fIPOC related errors\fP

50 - 53		Buffer RAM error (banks 0 - 3)
54 - 57		Buffer RAM clear error (banks 0 - 3)
58 - 5B		Event RAM Error (banks 0 - 3)
5C - 5F		Event RAM clear error (banks 0 - 3)
60		ROM CRC error
61		Timer short error
62		Shared RAM error
63		Shared RAM clear error
64		Illegal interupt or exception
65		Disk sequencer did not initialize
66		Restart FF did not initialize
67		Data parity error FF did not initialize
68		Versabus error FF did not initialize
69		Unit select panel did not clear
6A		Versabus interupt pending FF did not clear
6B		Restart interupt FF did not init
6C		Timer long error

70		DMA gate array init started
71		ROM CRC test started
72		Local RAM test started
73		Buffer RAM test started
74		Event RAM test started
75		SERDES gate array init started


\fIIllegal interupts or exceptions\fP

80		Bus error
81		Address error
82		Illegal instruction
83		Divide by zero
84		CHK instruction
85		TRAPV instruction
86		Privileged instruction
87		Trace trap
88		Line 1010 emulator
89		Line 1111 emulator
8A - 8C		Reserved (1 - 3)
8D		Uninitialized interupt
8E		Reserved 4
8F		Spurious interupt
91 - 97		"Hot" interupts on lines 1 - 7

.fi
.in -3m
E 2
I 2
\fBvd%d: init error\fP.
E 4
I 4
the type of controller, either
.Tn VDDC
or
.Tn SMDE .
.Pp
.It vd%d: init error.
E 4
During autoconfiguration the controller failed to respond to
an initialize command.
D 4
.PP
\fBvd%d: diagnostic error\fP.
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It vd%d: diagnostic error.
E 4
During autoconfiguration the controller failed  to respond to
a diagnostic command.
D 4
.PP
\fBdk%d: unknown drive type\fP.
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It dk%d: unknown drive type.
E 4
The system was unable to identify the specified drive as
one of the drives described above; the drive will not be
configured.
D 4
.PP
\fBvd%d: drive %d: config error\fP.
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It vd%d: drive %d: config error.
E 4
The system encountered a hard error when it tried to configure
a drive during autoconfiguration.
D 4
.PP
\fBvd%d: starting drives, wait ... \fP.
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It vd%d: starting drives, wait ... .
E 4
This message indicates the system is about to tell the
controller to ``start'' the drives attached to  it.
D 4
.PP
\fBdk%d: %s <ntrak %d, ncyl %d, nsec %d>\fP.
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It dk%d: %s <ntrak %d, ncyl %d, nsec %d>.
E 4
For each drive recognized during autoconfiguration the system
prints a message of this form.  The drive type is displayed
as well as the geometry: tracks/cylinder, cylinders, and sectors/track.
D 4
.PP
D 3
\fBvd%d: lost interrupt, status %b, error code %x\fP.
E 3
I 3
\fBvd%d: lost interrupt\fP.
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It vd%d: lost interrupt.
E 4
E 3
The system failed to receive an interrupt from the controller after
D 3
submitting a request.  The error status field of the device control
block is printed in hexadecimal followed by a symbolic description.
If this is an smde controller, the error code is also displayed.
E 3
I 3
submitting a request.
E 3
The system attempts to abort the current request and simulate an
interrupt to unwedge the controller.
I 3
During processing of the simulated interrupt, a controller error
will be reported as described below.
E 3
D 4
.PP
\fBvd%d: stray interrupt\fP.
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It vd%d: stray interrupt.
E 4
The system received an unexpected interrupt; it is ignored.
D 4
.PP
D 3
\fBdk%d%c: hard error sn%d status %b ecode %x\fP.
An unrecoverable error was encountered.  The sector number reported
is a physical sector number on the drive.  The error status and code
are displayed as described previously.  If the drive is write protected,
``status %b ecode %x'' will not be shown.
E 3
I 3
\fBdk%d%c: write locked\fP.
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It dk%d%c: write locked.
E 4
An attempt was made to write to a drive that is physically write-protected.
E 3
D 4
.PP
D 3
\fBdk%d%c: soft error sn%d status %b ecode %x\fP.
A recoverable error was detected by the controller.  The status and
error code information will not be shown if the controller indicated
it corrected the error itself.
E 3
I 3
\fBdk%d%c: controller err %sing fsbn %d [of %d-%d] (dk%d bn %d cn %d tn %d sn %d) status %b ecode %x; resetting controller... retrying\fP.
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It "dk%d%c: controller err %sing fsbn %d [of %d-%d] (dk%d bn %d cn %d tn %d sn %d) status %b ecode %x; resetting controller... retrying."
E 4
.br
D 4
\fBdk%d%c: drive err %sing fsbn %d [of %d-%d] (dk%d bn %d cn %d tn %d sn %d) status %b ecode %x; resetting drive... retrying\fP.
E 4
I 4
.It "dk%d%c: drive err %sing fsbn %d [of %d-%d] (dk%d bn %d cn %d tn %d sn %d) status %b ecode %x; resetting drive... retrying."
E 4
An attempted transfer resulted in a controller or drive error.
The controller or drive is reset, and the transfer is attempted
a second time.
E 3
D 4
.PP
I 3
\fBdk%d%c: hard error %sing fsbn %d [of %d-%d] (dk%d bn %d cn %d tn %d sn %d)
status %b ecode %x\fP.
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It "dk%d%c: hard error %sing fsbn %d [of %d-%d] (dk%d bn %d cn %d tn %d sn %d) status %b ecode %x."
E 4
An unrecoverable error was encountered.  The filesystem block number reported
is a logical sector number on the indicated partition;
it is expressed using 1024-byte sectors.
If the transfer involved multiple blocks, the block range is printed as well.
The parenthesized fields list the actual disk sector number
relative to the beginning of the drive
(in 512- or 1024-byte blocks, as appropriate),
as well as the cylinder, track and sector number of the block.
The error status field of the device control
block is printed in hexadecimal followed by a symbolic description.
D 4
If this is an SMDE controller, the error code is also displayed.
.PP
\fBdk%d%c: soft error %sing fsbn %d [of %d-%d] (dk%d bn %d cn %d tn %d sn %d)
status %b ecode %x\fP.
E 4
I 4
If this is an
.Tn SMDE
controller, the error code is also displayed.
.Pp
.It "dk%d%c: soft error %sing fsbn %d [of %d-%d] (dk%d bn %d cn %d tn %d sn %d) status %b ecode %x."
E 4
A recoverable error was detected by the controller.
The fields are interpreted in the same way as those for hard errors.
D 4
.PP
\fBdk%d%c: soft ecc %sing fsbn %d [of %d-%d] (dk%d bn %d cn %d tn %d sn %d)\fP.
A recoverable ECC error was detected and corrected by the controller
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It "dk%d%c: soft ecc %sing fsbn %d [of %d-%d] (dk%d bn %d cn %d tn %d sn %d)."
A recoverable
.Tn ECC
error was detected and corrected by the controller
E 4
during the indicated transfer.
D 4
.PP
E 3
\fBvd%d: drive %d: couldn't reset\fP.
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It vd%d: drive %d: couldn't reset.
E 4
The system was unable to reconfigure a drive during a controller reset.
D 4
.PP
\fBvd%d: controller timeout\fP.
E 4
I 4
.Pp
.It vd%d: controller timeout.
E 4
The controller failed to complete an operation within a reasonable
time.  This message is usually followed by another message indicating
what operation timed out; e.g. ``during config'' for a configuration
command.
E 2
D 4
.SH BUGS
E 4
I 4
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr disklabel 5 ,
.Xr disklabel 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver appeared in
.Bx 4.3 tahoe .
.Sh BUGS
E 4
D 2
.I write
scribbles on the tail of incomplete blocks.
E 2
I 2
Writes
scribble on the tail of incomplete blocks.
D 4
.PP
E 4
I 4
.Pp
E 4
D 3
The partition tables for the file systems should be read off of each
pack, as they are never quite what any single installation would prefer,
and this would make packs more portable.
E 3
I 3
The system should use real disk sector numbers internally,
instead of assuming 1024-byte sectors;
errors should report filesystem block numbers using the actual sector size.
D 4
Raw I/O should be permitted on any sector boundary.
E 4
I 4
Raw
.Tn I/O
should be permitted on any sector boundary.
E 4
E 3
E 2
E 1
