.TH DVAR 8 "February 1984"
.SH NAME
dvar \- ditroff driver for a Varian Raster Printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B dvar  [
.BI \-f fontdirectory
.BI \-F rasterdirectory
.BI \-o outputlist
]  filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Dvar
reads
.I ditroff
output file
.I filename
(or standard input if
.I filename
is missing) and converts it to a raster image suitable to be
sent to a Benson-Varian Raster Plotter.  The output is oriented
with the left hand portion of the page coming out first (sometimes
known as ``rotated'').
.I Dvar
writes its raster image to standard output, and performs ioctl
calls to get to the top of the next page at each page boundary.
It is designed to run under lpd (within an appropriate shell
commands script).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f \&fontdirectory
redefines the directory to look for device description and width
table files.  The default font directory is /usr/local/lib/font.
.TP
.BI \-F rasterdirectory
redefines the directory to look for vfont raster font files.  The default
raster directory is /usr/lib/vfont.
.TP
.BI \-o outputlist
specifies a list of pages to be printed.
.I Outputlist
is in the same format as for ditroff(1).
.SH WHAT GOES WHERE
.PP
The DESC.out file (created by
.IR devconfig ,
the width table encoder) and any extra font width tables (probably
not necessary) must be in fontdirectory/devva.
The vfont raster font files are in /usr/lib/vfont (or rasterdirectory,
if specified).  A font name translation file,
.IR fontmap ,
must also reside there.  This file maps the 1-or-2 character ditroff
font names to the name of the vfont files.  It does this by putting
each ditroff name and vfont name pair, separated by whitespace,
on a separate line.  The vfont files themselves are
named ``\f2name\fP.\f2#\fPr'', where
.I name
is the name given in
.I fontmap
and
.I #
is the pointsize of the font.  The `r' specifies that the font has been
rotated.
.PP
.I Dvar
searches the rasterdirectory to locate a font in a particular
point size.  If that size cannot be found, other sizes are looked
for, since not all fonts exist in all sizes.  If a font cannot
be found in any size
.I dvar
will print what it can:  sometimes nothing, sometimes a different font.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
ditroff(1), dsun(8), vft2ch(8),
vfontinfo(1), lpr(1), lpd(8)
.SH AUTHOR
David Slattengren
