.TH MAKEVFONT 8 "February 1984"
.SH NAME
makevfont, makeifont \- produce ditroff width tables from font files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\f3make\f2x\f3font\f1
[
.B \-n
.I name
.B "\-i \-s \-a \-o \-l \-c"
.B \-p
.I #
.B \-r
.I #
.B \-f
.I #
.B \-d
.I dir
.nf
.nr x \w'makex'
\h'\nxu'\f3\-x \f2s1,s2\f1\^[:\f2s1,s2\f1\|.\^.\^.\|]  \f3\-y \f2s1,s2\f1\^[:\f2s1,s2\f1\|.\^.\^.\|] ] \f2font\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Makevfont
reads the vfont file
.I font
(the font name without a point size) and produces a
human-readable ditroff width table on standard output.
.I
Makeifont
does the same thing for Imagen (rst format) fonts.  The
table lists the available characters (special and other),
gives ascender/descender information (not used at present)
and other general information about the font.
Font files produced by
.I makefont
should be converted to a binary table readable by ditroff.
This can be done using
.IR devconfig ,
along with the description file for the font's device.
.PP
There are a few character-name mappings to choose from for
individual fonts, and options to allow changing most of the parameters.
.I Makefont
also allows synonym definitions so that the same glyph can have more
than one name.  The width table is constructed with the widths
given for a
.B unitwidth
(see
.B \-p
and
.B \-f
options, below) point size.
.I Makefont
tries to read
.I font
in various point sizes until one is found.
.I Makevfont
looks for sizes (36, 24, 22, 20, 18, 16, 14, 28, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6) and
.I makeifont
looks for sizes (40, 36, 28, 24, 22, 20, 18, 16, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8,
7, 6, 5).  The widths are then scaled appropriately and the table is
output.  The options below will explain more of the capabilities.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-n " name
.I
name
is the one or two character ditroff font name to be used for this font.
The default is ``XX'' since there should always be a
.B \-n
option.
.TP
.B "\-i \-s \-a \-o"
These options change the character set configuration.  See
.B "FONT FORMATS AVAILABLE"
below for lists of each character set.
.TP
.B \-c
tells ditroff that the font is constant width, and sets some
parameters appropriately.  For
.I makevfont
this takes the width of the last valid glyph in the font as
the width of spaces in that font.
.I Makeifont
gets the spacewidth from a field in the font file itself.
.TP
.B \-l
tells ditroff that this font has ligatures.  If this option
is set, ditroff will try to use ``ff'', ``ffi'', etc.
character groupings when doing text in this font.
.TP
.BI "\-p " #
.I #
is the
.B unitwidth
parameter.  It is the point size at which the character widths are given.
This, along with the point size of the font used to make the table,
determines a scaling factor for the widths in the table.  The default for
.I makevfont
is 36, and for
.I makeifont
is 40.
.TP
.BI "\-r " #
.I #
is the resolution of the printing device.  The default for
.I makevfont
is 200 (in pixels/inch), and for
.I makeifont
is 240.
.TP
.BI "\-f " #
introduces a scaling factor to multiply all the widths by in addition
to scaling for
.BR unitwidth .
.I #
is a percentage value (default 100) that is multiplied into
the width of each glyph.
.TP
.BI "\-d " dir
changes the directory that
.I makefont
looks at to find font files.  The default
.I dir
for
.I makevfont
is /usr/lib/vfont, and for
.I makeifont
is /usr/src/local/imagen/fonts/raster.
.TP
\f3\-x \f2s1,s2\f1\^[:\f2s1,s2\f1\|.\^.\^.\|]
This option allows for a few changes in the character map.  It
consists of a colon separated list of comma separated
character-name pairs (the brackets are not part of the list).
No spaces are allowed in these lists.
For each character-name pair, the
first occurrence of \f2s1\fP in the character map is replaced
by \f2s2\fP.  If \f2s2\fP is missing (i.e. \f2s1\fP,:\f2s1\fP...)
then \f2s1 \fPis removed from the character map.
.TP
\f3\-y \f2s1,s2\f1\^[:\f2s1,s2\f1\|.\^.\^.\|]
This option allows the addition (or removal) of synonyms (see
.B "FONT FORMATS AVAILABLE"
below).  A synonym is a glyph that can be accessed by more than
one ditroff character-name.  An example is the capital greek
characters that match the capital roman letters.  The
.B \-y
option is an additive list of synonyms.  For each character-name
pair in this list, every occurrence of \f2s1\fP in the character
map will also have \f2s2\fP as a synonym.  If \f2s2\fP is missing
then all synonyms found for \f2s1\fP are removed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
vfontinfo(1), ditroff(1)
.br
The Berkeley Font Catalog
.SH AUTHOR
David Slattengren
.SH "FONT FORMATS AVAILABLE
.br
These tables list the names of characters in the order that
they appear in a particular configuration.  Double-character entries
are the two-character-named special characters in ditroff.  They
are accessed via \\(\fIxx\fP for each double-character \fIxx\fP.
Each of these configurations
also has a default set of synonyms listed after it.  Notice that
.I makevfont
does not have a
.B \-i
configuration; therefore
.B \-i
will not be understood.
.sp 1
\f(CW
.ce 9
MAKEVFONT - Standard font configuration
??  fi  fl  ff  \\-  ru  em  bu  sq  Fi  Fl  de  dg  fm  co  rg
ct  14  12  34  ^T  ^U  ^V  ^W  ^X  ^Y  ^Z  ^[  ^\\  ^]  ^^  ^\_
    !   "   #   $   %   &   '   (   )   *   +   ,   \-   .   /\0
0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   :   ;   <   =   >   ?\0
@   A   B   C   D   E   F   G   H   I   J   K   L   M   N   O\0
P   Q   R   S   T   U   V   W   X   Y   Z   [   \\   ]   ^   _\0
`   a   b   c   d   e   f   g   h   i   j   k   l   m   n   o\0
p   q   r   s   t   u   v   w   x   y   z   {   |   }   ~   ^?
.nf
.sp 1
Default Synonyms:
\-, hy
_, \\_
.sp 2
.ce 9
MAKEVFONT - Special font configuration (\-s)
??  if  ip  pt  rh  cu  rn  bs  +\-  <=  >=  sr  ts  is  sl  bv
lf  rf  lc  rc  lt  lb  rt  rb  lk  rk  sb  sp  ca  no  lh  mo
    !   "   #   $   %   &   aa  gr  )   mu  pl  ,   mi  .   di
==  ~=  ap  !=  <\-  \->  ua  da  sc  **  :   ;   <   eq  >   ?\0
@   *A  *B  *G  *D  *E  *Z  *Y  *H  *I  *K  *L  *M  *N  *C  *O
*P  *R  *S  *T  *U  *F  *X  *Q  *W  dd  br  ib  \\   ci  ^   ul
ga  *a  *b  *g  *d  *e  *z  *y  *h  *i  *k  *l  *m  *n  *c  *o
*p  *r  *s  *t  *u  es  *x  *q  *w  pd  *f  {   |   }   ~   ^?
.sp 1
No Default Synonyms.
.sp 2
.ce 9
MAKEVFONT - Times special font configuration (\-o)
??  if  ip  pt  rh  cu  rn  bs  +\-  <=  >=  mi  **  pl  eq  gr
lt  lk  lb  rt  rk  rb  ap  mo  br  rk  sb  sp  ca  no  ~=  mo
    da  no  ua  sc  dd  if  pd  sb  sp  mu  +\-  ca  cu  <\-  di
\->  !=  sr  <=  >=  ==  or  is  bv  lc  rc  lf  rf  ~=  \_   ib
ul  rn  ip  *G  *D  *E  *F  *G  *H  *I  ??  *L  *L  *N  *C  *O
*P  *H  *S  *S  *U  *U  *X  *W  *C  *Q  br  ib  ga  aa  ^   ul
ga  *a  *b  *g  *d  *e  *z  *y  *h  *i  *k  *l  *m  *n  *c  *o
*p  *r  *s  *t  *u  es  *x  *q  *w  pd  *f  {   |   }   ~   ^?
.sp 1
No Default Synonyms.
.sp 2
.ce 9
MAKEVFONT - Ascii font configuration (\-a)
    da  *a  *b  an  no  mo  *p  *l  *g  *d  ua  +\-  O+  if  pd
sb  sp  ca  cu  fa  te  OX  <>  <\-  \->  !=  ap  <=  >=  ==  or
    !   "   #   $   %   &   '   (   )   *   +   ,   \-   .   /\0
0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   :   ;   <   =   >   ?\0
@   A   B   C   D   E   F   G   H   I   J   K   L   M   N   O\0
P   Q   R   S   T   U   V   W   X   Y   Z   [   \\   ]   ^   \_\0
`   a   b   c   d   e   f   g   h   i   j   k   l   m   n   o\0
p   q   r   s   t   u   v   w   x   y   z   {   |   }   ~   ??
.sp 1
Default Synonyms:
\-, hy
\-, \\-
\_, \\_
.sp 2
.ce 9
MAKEIFONT - Standard font configuration
*G  *D  *H  *L  *C  *P  *S  *U  *F  *Q  *W  id  ij  ga  aa  ^\0
d^  hc  rn  ..  ~   ve  im  de  ce  tl  ar  fb  ae  oe  AE  OE
o/  !   "   fm  ft  %   &   '   (   )   *   +   ,   hy  .   /\0
0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   :   ;   <   =   >   ?\0
es  A   B   C   D   E   F   G   H   I   J   K   L   M   N   O\0
P   Q   R   S   T   U   V   W   X   Y   Z   [   b"  ]   \e\-  em
`   a   b   c   d   e   f   g   h   i   j   k   l   m   n   o\0
p   q   r   s   t   u   v   w   x   y   z   ff  fi  fl  Fi  Fl
.sp 1
Default Synonyms:
A, *A    B, *B    E, *E    H, *Y    I, *I
K, *K    M, *M    N, *N    O, *O    P, *R
T, *T    X, *X    Z, *Z    hy, \-
.sp 2
.ce 9
MAKEIFONT - Italics font configuration (\-i)
*G  *D  *H  *L  *C  *P  *S  *U  *F  *Q  *W  *a  *b  *g  *d  *e
*z  *y  *h  *i  *k  *l  *m  *n  *c  *p  *r  *s  *t  *u  *f  *x
id  !   "   el  Fi  pd  &   '   (   )   *   +   ,   hy  .   /\0
0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   :   ;   <   =   >   ?\0
id  A   B   C   D   E   F   G   H   I   J   K   L   M   N   O\0
P   Q   R   S   T   U   V   W   X   Y   Z   [   ff  ]   fi  fl
`   a   b   c   d   e   f   g   h   i   j   k   l   m   n   o\0
p   q   r   s   t   u   v   w   x   y   z   *q  *w  ?2  ?1  Fl
.sp 1
Default Synonyms:
A, *A    B, *B    E, *E    H, *Y    I, *I
K, *K    M, *M    N, *N    O, *O    P, *R
T, *T    X, *X    Z, *Z    o, *o    hy, \-
.sp 2
.ce 9
MAKEIFONT - Ascii font configuration (\-a)
m.  da  *a  *b  an  no  mo  *p  *l  *g  *d  is  +\-  O+  if  pd
sb  sp  ca  cu  fa  te  OX  <>  <\-  \->  ap  !=  <=  >=  ==  or
    !   "   #   $   %   &   '   (   )   *   +   ,   \-   .   /\0
0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   :   ;   <   =   >   ?\0
@   A   B   C   D   E   F   G   H   I   J   K   L   M   N   O\0
P   Q   R   S   T   U   V   W   X   Y   Z   [   \\   ]   ^   em
`   a   b   c   d   e   f   g   h   i   j   k   l   m   n   o\0
p   q   r   s   t   u   v   w   x   y   z   {   |   }   ~   dm
.sp 1
Default Synonyms:
\-, hy
\-, \\-
.sp 2
.ce 9
MAKEIFONT - Special font configuration (\-s)
mi  m.  mu  **  \\   ci  +\-  \-+  O+  O\-  OX  O/  O.  di  ht  bu
pe  ==  ib  ip  <=  >=  (=  )=  ap  pt  sb  sp  !=  .=  ((  ))
<\-  \->  ua  da  <>  <<  >>  ~=  lh  rh  Ua  Da  ><  uL  uR  lR
fm  if  mo  !m  0/  ul  al  )(  fa  te  no  ?0  ?1  ?2  cr  \0\0
/   A   B   C   D   E   F   G   H   I   J   K   L   M   N   O\0
P   Q   R   S   T   U   V   W   X   Y   Z   cu  ca  c+  an  or
|\-  \-|  lf  rf  lc  rc  {   }   <   >   br  ||  [[  ]]  \0   \0\0
sr  #   gr  is  ux  dx  rx  dm  sc  dg  dd  pp  @   co  \0   $\0
.sp 1
Default Synonyms:
lh, La
rh, Ra
.sp 2
.ce 9
MAKEIFONT - ``Other'' font configuration (\-o)
Bl  Br  LT  RT  LB  RB  rt  rk  rb  lt  lk  lb  rc  lc  rf  lf
bv  ci  ^R  ^S  ^T  ^U  ^V  ^W  ^X  ^Y  ^Z  ^[  ^\\  ^]  ^^  ^\_
    !   "   #   $   %   &   '   (   )   *   +   ,   \-   .   /\0
0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   :   ;   <   =   >   ?\0
@   A   B   C   D   E   F   G   H   I   J   K   L   M   N   O\0
P   Q   R   S   T   U   V   W   X   Y   Z   [   \\   ]   ^   \_\0
`   a   b   c   d   e   f   g   h   i   j   k   l   m   n   o\0
p   q   r   s   t   u   v   w   x   y   z   {   |   }   ~   dm
.sp 1
No default Synonyms.
