.TH VFONTINFO 1 "11 April 1980"
.SH NAME
vfontinfo, ifontinfo \- inspect and print out information about UNIX fonts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B vfontinfo
[
.B \-v
.BI \-z #
.B \-m
]
fontname
[
characters
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vfontinfo
allows you to examine a font in the UNIX (non-rotated) vfont format.
Ifontinfo is used to look at Imagen fonts (rst format).
They print to standard output all the information in the font
header and information about every non-null (bit-map size != 0) glyph.
They can be used to make sure a font is consistent with the format.
.PP
The
.I fontname
argument is the file name of the font you wish to inspect.  If
vfontinfo can't find the file in your working directory, it looks in
.I /usr/lib/vfont
(the place versatec fonts are kept).  Ifontinfo looks in
.I /usr/src/local/imagen/fonts/raster
after searching the current directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I characters
If given, they specify certain characters to show.
If omitted, the entire font is shown.
.TP
.B \-v
Show the bits of the glyph itself in the format specified by the
.B \-z
option, in addition to the header information.
.TP
.BI \-z #
sets the format (zoom) of the glyphs printed (implies the
.B \-v
option).  If
.I #
is 0, each pixel is represented by "[]";  1 specifies two pixels per
character, split across the middle;  2 specifies a two by four array
of pixels in each character position - approximate representations of
the pixels are printed using various characters.
.TP
.B \-m
eliminates all the extra information and just prints the
characters requested (a message).  If zoom is 2, the characters are printed
horizontally next to each other.  The default zoom for messages is 2.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
vpr(1), vfont(5)
.br
The Berkeley Font Catalog
.SH AUTHORS
David Slattengren
.br
Mark Horton
.br
Andy Hertzfeld
