.TH VFT2CH 8 "February 1984"
.SH NAME
vft2ch, rst2ch \- produce human-readable font files from other font files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B vft2ch
font [
.I character-list
]
.br
.sp 0.2i
.B rst2ch
font [
.I character-list
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vft2ch
reads a vfont format file and produces an character font (the ``.@''
representation \- see below) on standard output.
.I Rst2ch
does the same thing with an RST format font file,
the format used for the Canon/Imagen laser printer.  If
.I character-list
is present, only those glyphs in the font that are on the positions
corresponding to the ascii code of the characters in
.I character-list
are converted.
.PP
These programs both search a known directory, then the
current directory to find the file
.IR font .
Vfont files are looked for in /usr/lib/vfont and RST files
in /usr/src/local/imagen/fonts/raster.
.SH "CHARACTER FONT FORMAT (aka ``.@'')"
The format begins with a single line containing the word
.BR fontheader .
The rest of the file is an independent and rearrangeable set of entries.
An entry is either a glyph or a parameter.  Parameters are single-word
parameter-names followed by either an integer or
floating point number.  None of the parameters are required, but
no guarantee is made that a character font file will correctly compile
into an RST font (using
.IR ch2rst )
if all the parameters aren't there.  All of the parameters are
ignored when converting to vfont format font files.  A list of
valid parameters is shown below:
.sp 1
.TS
c c c
c c c
l c l.
Parameter	valid	 
Name	operands	What it means
_
size	integer	number of extra bytes in an RST font preamble
 	 	(ignored in programs that use RST font files)
version	integer	should be 0 for any RST format font
desiz	float	size (in points) the font was designed for
mag	integer	magnification of the design size (in 1/1000ths)
 	 	(desiz \(** mag / 1000 = size of the font)
wordsp	float	width of one space (in pixels) in this font
linesp	float	distance between lines (in pixels) in this font
rot	integer	rotation of font clockwise (rot \(** 90) degrees
cadv	integer	character advance direction (0 = left, 1 = down,
		2 = right, 3 = up)
ladv	integer	line advance, same as cadv
res	integer	resolution the font is designed for (pixels/inch)
id	integer	RST font file id (tends to be 0)
.TE
.sp 1
.PP
A glyph entry consists of a line that looks like this:
.sp 1
:\f2#1\fP, width = \f2#2\fP
.sp 1
where \f2#1\fP is the index of this glyph in the font and \f2#2\fP
is the (floating point number) printing width of the glyph in pixels.
It is followed, starting on the next line, by a strict rectangle of
periods (.) and at-signs (@).  The at-signs show where the black dots
of the glyph are and the periods fill in the rest of the rectangle.
This glyph matrix is terminated by a blank line (even if it's the
last entry in a file).
.PP
Within each glyph matrix there is exactly one `x' or `X' that
specifies the reference point of the glyph.  An `x' marks a white
pixel as the reference point, where an `X' marks a black one.
No other characters are allowed in the glyph pixel matrix.
.PP
As an example, the following output was produced from the seven-point
RST font cmr10.r7 using the command ``rst2ch cmr10.r7 "A^?".''
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CW
fontheader
size 54
version 0
mag 1000
desiz 7.00
linesp 27.90
wordsp 9.59
rot 0
cadv 0
ladv 1
id 0
res 240
:65, width = 19.93
\&........@@........
\&........@@........
\&........@@........
\&.......@.@@.......
\&.......@.@@.......
\&......@...@@......
\&......@...@@......
\&.....@.....@@.....
\&.....@.....@@.....
\&.....@.....@@.....
\&....@@@@@@@@@@....
\&....@.......@@....
\&...@.........@@...
\&...@.........@@...
\&..@@..........@@..
\&X@@@@.......@@@@@@

:127, width = 24.35
\&......@@@@@...@@@@@.@..
\&....@@....@@@@....@@@..
\&...@@.....@@@.....@@@..
\&...@@.....@@@.....@@@..
\&...@@......@@......@@..
\&.@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@..
\&...@@......@@......@@..
\&...@@......@@......@@..
\&...@@......@@......@@..
\&...@@......@@......@@..
\&...@@......@@......@@..
\&...@@......@@......@@..
\&...@@......@@......@@..
\&...@@......@@......@@..
\&...@@......@@......@@..
\&x@@@@@@..@@@@@@..@@@@@@

.ft
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
vfontinfo(1), scalech(8),
doublech(8), ch2vft(8)
.SH AUTHOR
David Slattengren
