h13592
s 00001/00001/00106
d D 8.2 94/01/12 17:40:29 mckusick 5 4
c identify as hp300
e
s 00002/00002/00105
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:56:49 bostic 4 3
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00093/00095/00014
d D 5.3 92/07/12 14:25:40 cael 3 2
c mdoc version three
e
s 00011/00004/00098
d D 5.2 91/03/22 14:42:42 bostic 2 1
c minor cleanup, using wording from makedev.8
e
s 00102/00000/00000
d D 5.1 91/03/22 14:14:07 bostic 1 0
c date and time created 91/03/22 14:14:07 by bostic
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 3
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
E 3
I 3
D 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1992 The Regents of the University of California.
E 3
.\" All rights reserved.
E 4
I 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1992, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 4
.\"
D 3
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 3
I 3
.\" %sccs.include.redist.roff%
E 3
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 3
.TH MAKEDEV 8 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
D 2
MAKEDEV \- create device special files
E 2
I 2
MAKEDEV \- create system and device special files
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
MAKEDEV device ...
E 2
I 2
MAKEDEV name ...
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
E 3
I 3
.Dd %Q%
D 5
.Dt MAKEDEV 8
E 5
I 5
.Dt MAKEDEV 8 hp300
E 5
.Os 4.3
.Sh NAME
.Nm MAKEDEV 
.Nd create system and device special files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm MAKEDEV
.Ar device_name Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
E 3
The shell script
D 3
.IR MAKEDEV ,
D 2
found in the ``/dev'' directory, is used to
create the common special files used to interface to peripherals.
E 2
I 2
found in the ``/dev'' directory, is used to create the common special
E 3
I 3
.Nm MAKEDEV ,
found in the
.Pa /dev
directory, is used to create the common special
E 3
files.
E 2
See
D 3
.IR special (8)
E 3
I 3
.Xr special 8
E 3
for a more complete discussion of special files.
D 3
.PP
.I MAKEDEV
E 3
I 3
.Pp
.Nm MAKEDEV
E 3
takes any number of device names as arguments, where the names are
the common abbreviation for the device.
I 2
D 3
There are two special devices, ``std'' and ``local''.
E 3
I 3
There are two special devices,
.Ar std
and
.Ar local .
E 3
The former creates the standard devices for the architecture.
The latter is for devices specific to the local site, and
D 3
executes the shell file ``MAKEDEV.local''.
E 2
.PP
The HP300 supports the following devices.
Where a device name is followed by a hash sign (``#''), the hash sign
E 3
I 3
executes the shell file
.Pa MAKEDEV.local .
.Pp
The
.Tn HP300
supports the following devices.
Where a device name is followed by a hash sign
.Ql \&# ,
the hash sign
E 3
must be replaced by a unit number.
D 3
.TP 10
std
the standard devices (console, drum, fd/*, klog, kmem, mem, null, stderr,
stdin, stdout, tty)
.br
.ns
.TP 10
local
configuration specific devices
.br
.ns
.TP 10
ct#
HP300 HP-IB cartridge tape
.br
.ns
.TP 10
cd#
``concatenated'' pseudo-disks
.br
.ns
.TP 10
rd#
HP300 HP-IB disks
.br
.ns
.TP 10
sd#
HP300 SCSI disks
.br
.ns
.TP 10
vnd#
``file'' pseudo-disks
.br
.ns
.TP 10
dca#
HP200/300 single port serial interface
.br
.ns
.TP 10
dcm#
HP200/300 4 port serial mux interface
.br
.ns
.TP 10
pty#
set of 16 master and slave pseudo terminals
.br
.ns
.TP 10
flog#
kernel logging device
.br
.ns
.TP 10
grf#
raw interface to HP300 graphics devices
.br
.ns
.TP 10
ite#
terminal emulator interface to HP300 graphics devices
.br
.ns
.TP 10
hil
HP300 HIL input devices
.SH FILES
/dev		The special file directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
I 2
.IR mknod (1), 
.IR intro (4),
.IR config (8),
E 2
.IR special (8)
E 3
I 3
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Ar std
the standard devices
.Pf ( Ar console ,
.Ar drum ,
.Ar fd/* ,
.Ar klog ,
.Ar kmem ,
.Ar mem ,
.Ar null ,
.Ar stderr ,
.Ar stdin ,
.Ar stdout ,
.Ar tty ) .
.It Ar  local
configuration specific devices.
.It Ar  ct#
HP300 HP-IB cartridge tape.
.It Ar  cd#
``concatenated'' pseudo-disks.
.It Ar  rd#
.Tn HP300
.Tn HP-IB
disks
.It Ar  sd#
HP300 SCSI disks.
.It Ar  vnd#
``file'' pseudo-disks.
.It Ar  dca#
.Tn HP200/300
single port serial interface.
.It Ar  dcm#
.Tn HP200/300
4 port serial mux interface.
.It Ar  pty#
set of 16 master and slave pseudo terminals.
.It Ar  flog#
kernel logging device.
.It Ar  grf#
raw interface to
.Tn HP300
graphics devices.
.It Ar  ite#
terminal emulator interface to
.Tn HP300
graphics devices.
.It Ar  hil
.Tn HP300
.Tn HIL
input devices.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Pa /dev
The special file directory.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mknod 1 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr config 8 ,
.Xr special 8
E 3
E 1
