h34895
s 00002/00002/00054
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:39:49 bostic 4 3
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00048/00035/00008
d D 5.3 91/05/02 17:24:09 cael 3 2
c mdoc version three/bsd copyright
e
s 00006/00005/00037
d D 5.2 91/04/17 15:23:36 bostic 2 1
c new copyright; att/bsd/shared
e
s 00042/00000/00000
d D 5.1 91/03/28 00:50:52 cael 1 0
c date and time created 91/03/28 00:50:52 by cael
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 2
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 2
I 2
D 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 4
I 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 4
E 2
.\"
D 2
.\"	@(#)mem.4	6.2 (Berkeley) 5/16/86
E 2
I 2
D 3
.\" %sccs.include.proprietary.roff%
E 3
I 3
.\" %sccs.include.redist.roff%
E 3
E 2
.\"
D 2
.TH MEM 4 "May 16, 1986"
E 2
I 2
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 3
.TH MEM 4 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
mem, kmem \- main memory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.lg
.I Mem
is a special file that is an image of the main memory
of the computer.
It may be used, for example, to examine
(and even to patch) the system.
.PP
Byte addresses in
.I mem
are interpreted as physical memory addresses.
References to non-existent locations cause errors to be returned.
.PP
The file
.I kmem
is the same as 
.I mem
except that kernel virtual memory
rather than physical memory is accessed.
Only kernel virtual addresses that are mapped to memory are allowed.
Examining and patching device registers is likely
to lead to unexpected results when read-only or write-only
bits are present.
.PP
On ISA the I/O memory space begins at physical address 0x000a0000
E 3
I 3
.Dd %Q%
.Dt MEM 4 i386
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mem ,
.Nm kmem
.Nd memory files
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The special file
.Nm /dev/mem
is an interface to the physical memory of the computer.
Byte offsets in this file are interpreted as physical memory addresses.
Reading and writing this file is equivalent to reading and writing
memory itself.
Only offsets within the bounds of
.Nm /dev/mem
are allowed.
.Pp
Kernel virtual memory is accessed through the interface
.Nm /dev/kmem
in the same manner as
.Nm /dev/mem .
Only kernel virtual addresses that are currently mapped to memory are allowed.
.Pp
On
.Tn ISA
the
.Tn I/O
memory space begins at physical address 0x000a0000
E 3
and runs to 0x00100000.
D 3
Per-process data for the current process is UPAGES long, and ends at virtual
E 3
I 3
The
per-process data
size
for the current process
is
.Dv UPAGES
long, and ends at virtual
E 3
address 0xfe000000.
D 3
.SH FILES
/dev/mem
.br
/dev/kmem
E 3
I 3
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Pa -compact
.It Pa /dev/mem
.It Pa /dev/kmem
.El
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm mem ,
.Nm kmem
files appeared in
.At v6 .
E 3
E 1
