/*  
 * Mach Operating System
 * Copyright (c) 1989 Carnegie-Mellon University
 * All rights reserved.  The CMU software License Agreement specifies
 * the terms and conditions for use and redistribution.
 */
/* 
 * HISTORY
 * $Log:	MACH_CHANGES,v $
 * Revision 2.2  89/02/26  10:59:21  gm0w
 * 	Changes for cleanup.
 * 
 * 16-Feb-89  Robert Baron (rvb) at Carnegie-Mellon University
 *	Compared vaxuba/ with bsd4.3
 *
 */

	FILES NEW in MACH
vaxuba/dmfz.c
vaxuba/dmfz.h
vaxuba/dr.c
vaxuba/drb.c
vaxuba/drbreg.h
vaxuba/drreg.h
vaxuba/drv.c
vaxuba/ds.c
vaxuba/dsc.h
vaxuba/dsreg.h
vaxuba/dzq.c
vaxuba/dzqio.h
vaxuba/dzqreg.h
vaxuba/fps.c
vaxuba/gmr.c
vaxuba/gmrreg.h
vaxuba/ip.c
vaxuba/ipconfig.h
vaxuba/ipstructs.h
vaxuba/np.c
vaxuba/qd.c
vaxuba/qd.c.old
vaxuba/qd_data.c
vaxuba/qdioctl.h
vaxuba/qdreg.h
vaxuba/qduser.h
vaxuba/qevent.h
vaxuba/qv.c
vaxuba/qvfont.c
vaxuba/qvioctl.h
vaxuba/qvreg.h
vaxuba/uda_umd.c
vaxuba/udareg_umd.h

	FILES CHANGED in MACH
vaxuba/dhu.c
vaxuba/dmf.c
vaxuba/dz.c
vaxuba/idc.c
vaxuba/rk.c
vaxuba/rl.c
vaxuba/tm.c
vaxuba/tmscp.c
vaxuba/ts.c
vaxuba/tsreg.h
vaxuba/uba.c
vaxuba/ubareg.h
vaxuba/ubavar.h
vaxuba/uda.c
vaxuba/udareg.h
vaxuba/up.c
vaxuba/ut.c
vaxuba/uu.c
vaxuba/vp.c

vaxuba/ad.c are identical
vaxuba/adreg.h are identical
vaxuba/ct.c are identical
vaxuba/dh.c are identical
vaxuba/dhreg.h are identical
vaxuba/dhureg.h are identical
vaxuba/dmfreg.h are identical
vaxuba/dmreg.h are identical
vaxuba/dmz.c are identical
vaxuba/dmzreg.h are identical
vaxuba/dn.c are identical
vaxuba/dzreg.h are identical
vaxuba/idcreg.h are identical
vaxuba/ik.c are identical
vaxuba/ikreg.h are identical
vaxuba/kgclock.c are identical
vaxuba/lp.c are identical
vaxuba/lpa.c are identical
vaxuba/npreg.h are identical
vaxuba/pdma.h are identical
vaxuba/ps.c are identical
vaxuba/psreg.h are identical
vaxuba/rkreg.h are identical
vaxuba/rlreg.h are identical
vaxuba/rx.c are identical
vaxuba/rxreg.h are identical
vaxuba/tmreg.h are identical
vaxuba/tmscpreg.h are identical
vaxuba/upreg.h are identical
vaxuba/utreg.h are identical
vaxuba/uureg.h are identical
vaxuba/va.c are identical
vaxuba/vpreg.h are identical
vaxuba/vs.c are identical
vaxuba/vsreg.h are identical
