/*  
 * Mach Operating System
 * Copyright (c) 1989 Carnegie-Mellon University
 * All rights reserved.  The CMU software License Agreement specifies
 * the terms and conditions for use and redistribution.
 */
/* 
 * HISTORY
 * $Log:	MACH_CHANGES,v $
 * Revision 2.2  89/02/26  10:50:30  gm0w
 * 	Changes for cleanup.
 * 
 * 16-Feb-89  Robert Baron (rvb) at Carnegie-Mellon University
 *	Compared vaxif/ with bsd4.3
 *
 */

	FILES NEW in MACH
vaxif/enet.c
vaxif/enetdefs.h
vaxif/if_en.c.beta
vaxif/if_ix.c
vaxif/if_ni.c
vaxif/if_ni.h
vaxif/if_nireg.h
vaxif/if_qn.c
vaxif/if_qnreg.h

	FILES CHANGED in MACH
vaxif/if_de.c
vaxif/if_ec.c
vaxif/if_en.c
vaxif/if_en.h
vaxif/if_hdh.c
vaxif/if_hdhreg.h
vaxif/if_hy.c
vaxif/if_hy.h
vaxif/if_hyreg.h
vaxif/if_qe.c
vaxif/if_qereg.h
vaxif/if_uba.c
vaxif/if_uba.h
vaxif/if_vv.c
vaxif/raw_hy.c

vaxif/if_acc.c are identical
vaxif/if_accreg.h are identical
vaxif/if_css.c are identical
vaxif/if_cssreg.h are identical
vaxif/if_ddn.c are identical
vaxif/if_ddnreg.h are identical
vaxif/if_ddnvar.h are identical
vaxif/if_dereg.h are identical
vaxif/if_dmc.c are identical
vaxif/if_dmc.h are identical
vaxif/if_ecreg.h are identical
vaxif/if_enreg.h are identical
vaxif/if_ex.c are identical
vaxif/if_exreg.h are identical
vaxif/if_il.c are identical
vaxif/if_il.h are identical
vaxif/if_ilreg.h are identical
vaxif/if_ix.h are identical
vaxif/if_pcl.c are identical
vaxif/if_pclreg.h are identical
vaxif/if_vv.h are identical
