h17872
s 00002/00002/00090
d D 8.1 93/06/09 19:17:06 bostic 6 5
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00000/00005/00092
d D 6.4 93/06/09 19:17:03 bostic 5 3
c fixed the under development line
e
s 00002/00002/00095
d R 8.1 93/06/05 13:46:02 bostic 4 3
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00070/00036/00027
d D 6.3 91/03/28 00:46:05 cael 3 2
c macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00002/00002/00061
d D 6.2 88/08/22 11:07:16 karels 2 1
c kdb =>kadb
e
s 00063/00000/00000
d D 6.1 86/11/24 18:41:25 mckusick 1 0
c from sam
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 3
.\" Copyright (c) 1986 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 3
I 3
D 6
.\" Copyright (c) 1986, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 6
I 6
.\" Copyright (c) 1986, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 6
E 3
.\"
D 3
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 3
I 3
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 3
.\"
D 2
.TH KDB 4 "%Q%"
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH KADB 4 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 7
.SH NAME
kdb \- kernel debugging facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.B "options KDB"
E 2
I 2
.B "options KADB"
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.lg
.I Kdb
E 3
I 3
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt KADB 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kdb
.Nd kernel debugging facility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy options
.Nm KADB
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Kdb
E 3
is a debugging facility for the kernel based on
D 3
.IR adb (1).
.I Kdb
E 3
I 3
.Xr adb 1 .
.Nm Kdb
E 3
may be used to symbolically examine and modify memory locations,
set breakpoints, and single step the system.
D 3
.PP
E 3
I 3
.Pp
E 3
Several boot time options are used in conjunction
D 3
with the debugger.  To ``enable'' the debugger, the system
must be booted with the RB_KDB flag (0x40) specified in the 
.I boothowto
E 3
I 3
with the debugger.  To
.Dq enable
the debugger, the system
must be booted with the
.Dv RB_KDB
flag (0x40) specified in the 
.Em boothowto
E 3
register.  When the debugger is
enabled the system will read
in and initialize the symbol table from the booted system.
D 3
If the RB_HALT flag (0x08) is also specified, the system will
E 3
I 3
If the
.Dv RB_HALT
flag (0x08) is also specified, the system will
E 3
enter the debugger at the earliest possible time to allow
breakpoints to be set before the system starts operation.
D 3
From that point on, if the RB_NOSYNC flag (0x04) is set,
typing ``^[k'', ``^[K'', or ``^[^K'' at the
E 3
I 3
From that point on, if the
.Dv RB_NOSYNC
flag (0x04) is set,
typing
.Ql ^[k ,
.Ql ^[K ,
or
.Ql ^[^K
at the
E 3
console causes a trap into the debugger.
D 3
.PP
.I Kdb
E 3
I 3
.Pp
.Nm Kdb
E 3
supports most of the 
D 3
.I adb
command language.  The output formats `f', `F', `Y', are not
E 3
I 3
.Xr adb
command language.  The output formats
.Ql f ,
.Ql F ,
.Ql Y ,
are not
E 3
supported.  The address space maps do not exist, thus the
D 3
`/m', `?m', and `$m' commands do not exist.  Shell escapes
and command files are not supported.  The `:r' and `:k'
E 3
I 3
.Ql \&m ,
.Ql \&m ,
and
.Ql \&m
commands do not exist.  Shell escapes
and command files are not supported.  The
.Ql \&r
and
.Ql \&k
E 3
commands make no sense and are not recognized.  Finally, the
signal arguments to the continue and single step commands are
ignored.
D 3
.SH NOTES
.I Kdb
E 3
I 3
.Sh NOTES
.Nm Kdb
E 3
normally runs at a priority level below the interrupt
level of the clock and all devices; the level of the highest priority
software interrupt.  If the debugger is entered on the kernel's
per-process stack at an ipl below its normal operating level it
automatically switches to the interrupt stack to avoid potential
overflow of the kernel stack.  Should the debugger operate on
D 3
the kernel stack the message ``(on kernel stack)'' will be printed
E 3
I 3
the kernel stack the message
.Ql (on kernel stack)
will be printed
E 3
on entry.
D 3
.PP
E 3
I 3
.Pp
E 3
Note also that because
D 3
.I kdb
use input from the console to force entry to the debugger it may
E 3
I 3
.Nm kdb
uses input from the console to force entry to the debugger it may
E 3
not be possible to force entry if the system hangs at a priority
level higher than the console receiver interrupt.
D 3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
adb(1)
E 3
I 3
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr adb 1
D 5
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
debugging facility
.Ud
E 5
E 3
E 1
