h07996
s 00002/00002/00108
d D 8.1 93/06/09 19:11:11 bostic 5 4
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00000/00005/00110
d D 5.3 93/06/09 19:11:07 bostic 4 2
c fixed the under development line
e
s 00002/00002/00113
d R 8.1 93/06/05 13:39:30 bostic 3 2
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00092/00053/00023
d D 5.2 91/03/27 23:24:36 cael 2 1
c macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00076/00000/00000
d D 5.1 90/06/29 18:58:32 bostic 1 0
c date and time created 90/06/29 18:58:32 by bostic
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 2
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 2
I 2
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 5
I 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 5
E 2
.\"
D 2
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
I 2
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 2
.\"
D 2
.TH AUTOCONF 4 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
autoconf \- diagnostics from the autoconfiguration code
.SH DESCRIPTION
When UNIX bootstraps it probes the innards of the machine
E 2
I 2
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt AUTOCONF 4 hp300
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm autoconf
.Nd diagnostics from the autoconfiguration code
.Sh DESCRIPTION
When
.Tn UNIX
bootstraps it probes the innards of the machine
E 2
on which it is running
and locates controllers, drives, and other devices, printing out
what it finds on the console.  This procedure is driven by a system
configuration table which is processed by
D 2
.IR config (8)
E 2
I 2
.Xr config 8
E 2
and compiled into each kernel.
D 2
.PP
Autoconfiguration on the HP300s is similar to that on the VAX,
E 2
I 2
.Pp
Autoconfiguration on the
.Tn HP300 Ns s
is similar to that on the
.Tn VAX ,
E 2
the primary difference is in the naming conventions.
D 2
On the HP300,
E 2
I 2
On the
.Tn HP300 ,
E 2
if devices exist which are not configured they will be ignored;
if devices exist of unsupported type they will be ignored.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
Normally, the system uses the disk from which it was loaded as the root
filesystem.
If that is not possible,
D 2
a generic system will use ``rd0'' if it exists.
If such a system is booted with the RB_ASKNAME option (see
.IR reboot (2)),
E 2
I 2
a generic system will use
.Sq Li rd0
if it exists.
If such a system is booted with the
.Dv RB_ASKNAME
option (see
.Xr reboot 2 ) ,
E 2
then the name of the root device is read from the console terminal at boot
time, and any available device may be used.
D 2
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(4), boot(8), config(8)
.br
\fI4.3BSD for the HP300\fR in the distribution documentation package.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBCPU type not configured\fR
.br
You tried to boot UNIX on a cpu type which it doesn't
(or at least this compiled version of UNIX doesn't) understand.
.PP
\fBhpib%d at sc%d, ipl %d\fR
.br
An HP-IB was found at sc%d (the select code)
E 2
I 2
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It CPU type not configured.
You tried to boot
.Tn UNIX
on a
.Tn CPU
type which it doesn't
(or at least this compiled version of
.Tn UNIX
doesn't) understand.
.Pp
.It hpib%d at sc%d, ipl %d.
An
.Tn HP-IB
was found at sc%d (the select code)
E 2
with ipl%d (interrupt priority level).
D 2
UNIX will call it hpib%d.
.PP
\fB%s%d: %s\fR
.br
\fB%s%d at hpib%d, slave %d\fR
.br
An HP-IB disk or tape controller was found.
For disks %s%d will look like ``rd0'',
for tapes like ``ct0''.
The %s in the first line will be a product type like ``7945A'' or ``9144''.
E 2
I 2
.Tn UNIX
will call it hpib%d.
.Pp
.It %s%d: %s.
.It %s%d at hpib%d, slave %d.
An
.Tn HP-IB
disk or tape controller was found.
For disks
.Ql %s%d
will look like
.Sq Li rd0 ,
for tapes like
.Sq Li ct0 .
The
.Ql %s
in the first line will be a product type like ``7945A'' or ``9144''.
E 2
The slave number comes from the address select switches on the drive.
D 2
.PP
\fBgrf0 csr 0x560000\fR
.br
\fBgrf%d at sc%d\fR
.br
E 2
I 2
.Pp
.It grf0 csr 0x560000
.It grf%d at sc%d
E 2
A bit mapped display was found either at the ``internal'' address (first case)
or at some ``external'' select code (second case).
If it exists, the internal display will always be unit 0.
D 2
.PP
\fB%s%d at sc%d, ipl %d flags %d\fR
.br
E 2
I 2
.Pp
.It %s%d at sc%d, ipl %d flags %d
E 2
Another peripheral controller was found at the indicated select code
and with indicated interrupt priority level.
D 2
%s will be one of
``dca'' (single-port serial interfaces),
``dcm'' (four-port serial interfaces), or
``le'' (LAN cards).
E 2
I 2
.Ql %s
will be one of
.Xr dca 4
(single-port serial interfaces),
.Xr dcm 4
(four-port serial interfaces), or
.Xr le 4
.Pf ( Tn LAN
cards).
E 2
The slave number comes from the address select switches on the interface card.
I 2
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr boot 8 ,
.Xr config 8
.Rs
.%T 4.3BSD for the HP300
.%O in the distribution documentation package
.Re
D 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm autoconf
feature
.Ud -beta
E 4
E 2
E 1
