h52427
s 00002/00002/00140
d D 8.1 93/06/09 19:13:18 bostic 5 4
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00000/00005/00142
d D 5.3 93/06/09 19:13:15 bostic 4 2
c fixed the under development line
e
s 00002/00002/00145
d R 8.1 93/06/05 13:40:26 bostic 3 2
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00103/00072/00044
d D 5.2 91/03/27 23:24:42 cael 2 1
c macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00116/00000/00000
d D 5.1 90/06/29 19:03:56 bostic 1 0
c date and time created 90/06/29 19:03:56 by bostic
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 2
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
E 2
I 2
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
E 2
.\" All rights reserved.
E 5
I 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 5
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Systems Programming Group of the University of Utah Computer
.\" Science Department.
.\"
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
.\"
D 2
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
I 2
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
.\"
D 2
.TH DV 4 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
dv \- HP98730 ``DaVinci'' device interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
This driver is for the HP98730 and 98731 graphics device, also known as
E 2
I 2
.Dd %Q%
.Dt DV 4 hp300
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm dv
.Nd
.Tn HP98730
``DaVinci'' device interface
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This driver is for the
.Tn HP98730
and 98731 graphics device, also known as
E 2
the DaVinci.  This driver has not been tested with all possible
combinations of frame buffer boards and scan boards installed in the device.
The driver merely checks for the existence of the device and does minimal set
up.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
The DaVinci can be configured at either the ``internal'' address
(frame buffer address 0x200000, control register space address 0x560000)
or at an external select code less than 32.
At the internal address it will be the ``preferred'' console device
(see
D 2
.IR cons (4)).
E 2
I 2
.Xr cons 4 ) .
E 2
The hardware installation manual describes the procedure for
setting these values.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
A user process communicates to the device initially by means of
D 2
.IR ioctl (2)
calls.  For the HP-UX ioctl calls supported, refer to HP-UX manuals.
The BSD calls supported are:
.TP
GRFIOCGINFO
E 2
I 2
.Xr ioctl 2
calls.  For the
.Tn HP-UX
.Xr ioctl
calls supported, refer to
.Tn HP-UX
manuals.
The
.Bx
calls supported are:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Dv GRFIOCGINFO
E 2
Get Graphics Info
D 2
.sp
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
Get info about device, setting the entries in the
D 2
.I grfinfo
structure, as defined in <hpdev/grfioctl.h>.
E 2
I 2
.Ar grfinfo
structure, as defined in
.Aq Pa hpdev/grfioctl.h .
E 2
For the standard 98730, the number of planes should be 4.  The number of
colors would therefore be 15, excluding black.  If one 98732A frame buffer
board is installed, there will still be 4 planes, with the 4 planes on the
colormap board becoming overlay planes.  With each additional 98732 frame
buffer board 4 planes will be added up to a maximum of 32 planes total.
D 2
.TP
GRFIOCON
E 2
I 2
.It Dv GRFIOCON
E 2
Graphics On
D 2
.sp
Turn graphics on by enabling CRT output.  The screen will come on, displaying
E 2
I 2
.Pp
Turn graphics on by enabling
.Tn CRT
output.  The screen will come on, displaying
E 2
whatever is in the frame buffer, using whatever colormap is in place.
D 2
.TP
GRFIOCOFF
E 2
I 2
.It Dv GRFIOCOFF
E 2
Graphics Off
D 2
.sp
Turn graphics off by disabling output to the CRT.  The frame buffer contents
E 2
I 2
.Pp
Turn graphics off by disabling output to the
.Tn CRT .
The frame buffer contents
E 2
are not affected.
D 2
.TP
GRFIOCMAP
E 2
I 2
.It Dv GRFIOCMAP
E 2
Map Device to user space
D 2
.sp
Map in control registers and framebuffer space. Once the device file is
E 2
I 2
.Pp
Map in control registers and frame buffer space. Once the device file is
E 2
mapped, the frame buffer structure is accessible.  The structure describing
D 2
the 98730 is defined in <hpdev/grf_dvreg.h>.
.SH EXAMPLE
E 2
I 2
the 98730 is defined in
.Aq Pa hpdev/grf_dvreg.h .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE
E 2
This is a short segment of code showing how the device is opened and mapped
D 2
into user process address space assuming that it is grf0:
.DS
{
    struct dvboxfb *dvbox;
    u_char *Addr, frame_buffer;
    struct grfinfo gi;
    int disp_fd;
E 2
I 2
into user process address space assuming that it is
.Ql grf0 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct dvboxfb *dvbox;
u_char *Addr, frame_buffer;
struct grfinfo gi;
int disp_fd;
E 2

D 2
      disp_fd = open("/dev/grf0",1);
E 2
I 2
disp_fd = open("/dev/grf0",1);
E 2

D 2
      if (ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCGINFO, &gi) < 0) return -1;
E 2
I 2
if (ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCGINFO, &gi) < 0) return -1;
E 2

D 2
      (void) ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCON, 0);
E 2
I 2
(void) ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCON, 0);
E 2

D 2
      Addr = (u_char *) 0;
      if (ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCMAP, &Addr) < 0) {
           (void) ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCOFF, 0);
           return -1;
      }
      dvbox = (dvboxfb *) Addr;                       /* Control Registers   */
      frame_buffer = (u_char *) Addr + gi.gd_regsize; /* Frame buffer memory */
E 2
I 2
Addr = (u_char *) 0;
if (ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCMAP, &Addr) < 0) {
(void) ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCOFF, 0);
return -1;
E 2
}
D 2
.DE
.SH SEE ALSO
ioctl(2), grf(4).
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/crt98730, /dev/ocrt98730  'u
/dev/grf?	BSD special file
.br
/dev/crt98730, /dev/ocrt98730  HP-UX \fIstarbase\fP special files
.br
/dev/MAKEDEV.hpux	script for creating HP-UX special files
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
[ENODEV]
E 2
I 2
dvbox = (dvboxfb *) Addr;                  /* Control Registers   */
frame_buffer=(u_char *)Addr+gi.gd_regsize; /* Frame buffer memory */
.Ed
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/MAKEDEV.hpux -compact
.It Pa /dev/grf?
.Bx
special file
.It Pa /dev/crt98730
.It Pa /dev/ocrt98730
.Tn HP-UX
.Em starbase
special files
.It Pa /dev/MAKEDEV.hpux
script for creating
.Tn HP-UX
special files
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
None under
.Bx .
.Tn HP-UX
.Tn CE.utilities
must be used.
.Sh ERRORS
.Bl -tag -width [EINVAL]
.It Bq Er ENODEV
E 2
no such device.
D 2
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
E 2
I 2
.It Bq Er EBUSY
E 2
Another process has the device open.
D 2
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
E 2
I 2
.It Bq Er EINVAL
E 2
Invalid ioctl specification.
D 2
.SH BUGS
E 2
I 2
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
.Xr grf 4 .
D 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver
.Ud
E 4
.Sh BUGS
E 2
Not tested for all configurations of scan board and frame buffer memory boards.
D 2
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None under BSD.
.br
HP-UX CE.utilities must be used.
E 2
E 1
