h42096
s 00002/00002/00152
d D 8.1 93/06/09 19:13:32 bostic 5 4
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00001/00005/00153
d D 5.3 93/06/09 19:13:28 bostic 4 2
c fixed the under development line
e
s 00002/00002/00156
d R 8.1 93/06/05 13:40:35 bostic 3 2
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00102/00075/00056
d D 5.2 91/03/27 23:24:43 cael 2 1
c macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00131/00000/00000
d D 5.1 90/06/29 19:03:58 bostic 1 0
c date and time created 90/06/29 19:03:58 by bostic
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 2
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
E 2
I 2
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
E 2
.\" All rights reserved.
E 5
I 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 5
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Systems Programming Group of the University of Utah Computer
.\" Science Department.
I 4
.\"
E 4
D 2
.\"
E 2
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
.\"
D 2
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
I 2
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
.\"
D 2
.TH GB 4 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
gb \- HP98700 ``Gatorbox'' device interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
This driver is for the HP98700 and 98710 graphics devices, also known as
E 2
I 2
.Dd %Q%
.Dt GB 4 hp300
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gb
.Nd
.Tn HP98700
``Gatorbox'' device interface
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This driver is for the
.Tn HP98700
and 98710 graphics devices, also known as
E 2
the Gatorbox.  The term ``Gator'' will often be used, and it is not to be
D 2
confused with ``Gator'' used in reference to an HP 9837 or 200/237 machine.
E 2
I 2
confused with ``Gator'' used in reference to an
.Tn HP
9837 or 200/237 machine.
E 2
Also, the term Gatorbox is used for the 98700 alone, with the 98701 frame
buffer memory or with the 98710 accelerator installed.  This driver merely
checks for the existence of the device and does minimal set up, as it is
expected the applications will initialize the device to their requirements.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
The 98700 can be used as the only graphics device on a system, in which case
it will be used as the system console.  It can also be installed as a secondary
D 2
display device.  For the first case, the HP 98287A M.A.D. interface card
E 2
I 2
display device.  For the first case, the
.Tn HP
.Tn 98287A M.A.D.
interface card
E 2
should be set to internal control space.  This will put the frame buffer at
the DIO address 0x200000 and the control registers at 0x560000.
At this address it will be the ``preferred'' console device (see
D 2
.IR cons (4)).
E 2
I 2
.Xr cons 4 ) .
E 2
For use as a secondary device,
the 98287A should be set to frame buffer address 0x300000,
and to an external select code.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
It should be noted that this configuration will conflict with the 98547
display card which has a 2 megabyte frame buffer starting at address 0x200000.
The 98700 should only be installed as a secondary device in a machine with a
1 bit 98544 display card or 4 bit 98545 card.
The
D 2
.I "98700H Installation Guide"
E 2
I 2
.%T 98700H Installation Guide
E 2
contains further configuration information.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
The
D 2
.IR ioctl (2)
calls supported by the BSD system for the Gatorbox are:
.TP
GRFIOCGINFO
E 2
I 2
.Xr ioctl 2
calls supported by the
.Bx
system for the Gatorbox are:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Dv GRFIOCGINFO
E 2
Get Graphics Info
D 2
.sp
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
Get info about device, setting the entries in the
D 2
.I grfinfo
structure, as defined in <hpdev/grfioctl.h>.
E 2
I 2
.Em grfinfo
structure, as defined in
.Aq Pa hpdev/grfioctl.h .
E 2
For the standard 98700, the number of planes should be 4.  The number of
colors would therefore be 15, excluding black.  With the 98701 option installed
there will be another 4 planes for a total of 8, giving 255 colors.
D 2
.TP
GRFIOCON
E 2
I 2
.It Dv GRFIOCON
E 2
Graphics On
D 2
.sp
Turn graphics on by enabling CRT output.  The screen will come on, displaying
E 2
I 2
.Pp
Turn graphics on by enabling
.Tn CRT
output.  The screen will come on, displaying
E 2
whatever is in the frame buffer, using whatever colormap is in place.
D 2
.TP
GRFIOCOFF
E 2
I 2
.It Dv GRFIOCOFF
E 2
Graphics Off
D 2
.sp
Turn graphics off by disabling output to the CRT.  The frame buffer contents
E 2
I 2
.Pp
Turn graphics off by disabling output to the
.Tn CRT .
The frame buffer contents
E 2
are not affected.
D 2
.TP
GRFIOCMAP
E 2
I 2
.It Dv GRFIOCMAP
E 2
Map Device to user space
D 2
.sp
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
Map in control registers and framebuffer space. Once the device file is
mapped, the frame buffer structure is accessible.
The frame buffer structure describing the 98700
D 2
is given in <hpdev/grf_gbreg.h>.
.TP
GRFIOCUNMAP
E 2
I 2
is given in
.Aq Pa hpdev/grf_gbreg.h .
.It Dv GRFIOCUNMAP
E 2
Unmap Device
D 2
.sp
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
Unmap control registers and framebuffer space.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
For further information about the use of ioctl see the man page.
D 2
.SH EXAMPLE
E 2
I 2
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE
E 2
A small example of opening, mapping and using the device is given below.
For more examples of the details on the behavior of the device, see the device
dependent source files for the X Window System, in the
D 2
.I /usr/src/new/X/libhp.fb
E 2
I 2
.Pa /usr/src/new/X/libhp.fb
E 2
directory.
D 2
.DS
{
    struct gboxfb *gbox;
    u_char *Addr, frame_buffer;
    struct grfinfo gi;
    int disp_fd;
E 2
I 2
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct gboxfb *gbox;
u_char *Addr, frame_buffer;
struct grfinfo gi;
int disp_fd;
E 2

D 2
      disp_fd = open("/dev/grf0",1);
E 2
I 2
disp_fd = open("/dev/grf0",1);
E 2

D 2
      if (ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCGINFO, &gi) < 0) return -1;
E 2
I 2
if (ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCGINFO, &gi) < 0) return -1;
E 2

D 2
      (void) ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCON, 0);
E 2
I 2
(void) ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCON, 0);
E 2

D 2
      Addr = (u_char *) 0;
      if (ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCMAP, &Addr) < 0) {
           (void) ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCOFF, 0);
           return -1;
      }
      gbox = (gboxfb *) Addr;                         /* Control Registers   */
      frame_buffer = (u_char *) Addr + gi.gd_regsize; /* Frame buffer memory */
E 2
I 2
Addr = (u_char *) 0;
if (ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCMAP, &Addr) < 0) {
(void) ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCOFF, 0);
return -1;
E 2
}
D 2
.DE
.SH SEE ALSO
ioctl(2), grf(4)
.SH FILES
/dev/grf?	BSD special file
.br
/dev/crt98700	HP-UX \fIstarbase\fP special file
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
[ENODEV]
E 2
I 2
gbox = (gboxfb *) Addr;                         /* Control Registers   */
frame_buffer = (u_char *) Addr + gi.gd_regsize; /* Frame buffer memory */
.Ed
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/crt98700 -compact
.It Pa /dev/grf?
.Bx
special file
.It Pa /dev/crt98700
.Tn HP-UX
.Em starbase
special file
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
None under
.Bx .
.Tn HP-UX
The
.Tn CE.utilities/Crtadjust
programs must be used.
.Sh ERRORS
.Bl -tag -width [EINVAL]
.It Bq Er ENODEV
E 2
no such device.
D 2
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
E 2
I 2
.It Bq Er EBUSY
E 2
Another process has the device open.
D 2
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
E 2
I 2
.It Bq Er EINVAL
E 2
Invalid ioctl specification.
D 2
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None under BSD.
.br
HP-UX CE.utilities/Crtadjust programs must be used.
E 2
I 2
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
.Xr grf 4
D 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver
.Ud
E 4
E 2
E 1
