h36965
s 00002/00002/00110
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:41:05 bostic 3 2
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00067/00041/00045
d D 5.2 91/03/27 23:24:46 cael 2 1
c macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00086/00000/00000
d D 5.1 90/06/29 18:58:35 bostic 1 0
c date and time created 90/06/29 18:58:35 by bostic
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 2
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 2
I 2
D 3
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 3
I 3
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 3
E 2
.\"
D 2
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
I 2
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 2
.\"
D 2
.TH INTRO 4 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to special files and hardware support
.SH DESCRIPTION
E 2
I 2
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt INTRO 4 hp300
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm intro
.Nd introduction to special files and hardware support
.Sh DESCRIPTION
E 2
This section describes the special files, related driver functions,
and networking support
available in the system.
D 2
In this part of the manual, the SYNOPSIS section of
E 2
I 2
In this part of the manual, the
.Tn SYNOPSIS
section of
E 2
each configurable device gives a sample specification
for use in constructing a system description for the
D 2
.IR config (8)
E 2
I 2
.Xr config 8
E 2
program.
D 2
The DIAGNOSTICS section lists messages which may appear on the console
E 2
I 2
The
.Tn DIAGNOSTICS
section lists messages which may appear on the console
E 2
and/or in the system error log
D 2
.I /usr/adm/messages
E 2
I 2
.Pa /usr/adm/messages
E 2
due to errors in device operation;
see
D 2
.IR syslogd (8)
E 2
I 2
.Xr syslogd 8
E 2
for more information.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
This section contains both devices
D 2
which may be configured into the system, ``4'' entries,
and network related information,
``4N'', ``4P'', and ``4F'' entries;
E 2
I 2
which may be configured into the system
and network related information.
E 2
The networking support is introduced in
D 2
.IR intro (4N).
.SH "HP DEVICE SUPPORT"
This section describes the hardware supported on the HP 9000/300 series.
E 2
I 2
.Xr netintro 4 .
.Sh HP DEVICE SUPPORT
This section describes the hardware supported on the
.Tn HP
9000/300 series.
E 2
Software support for these devices comes in two forms.  A hardware
device may be supported with a character or block
D 2
.IR "device driver" ,
E 2
I 2
.Em device driver ,
E 2
or it may be used within the networking subsystem and have a
D 2
.IR "network interface driver" .
E 2
I 2
.Em network interface driver .
E 2
Block and character devices are accessed through files in the file
D 2
system of a special type; c.f.
.IR mknod (8).
E 2
I 2
system of a special type; see
.Xr mknod 8 .
E 2
Network interfaces are indirectly accessed through the interprocess
communication facilities provided by the system; see
D 2
.IR socket (2).
.PP
E 2
I 2
.Xr socket 2 .
.Pp
E 2
A hardware device is identified to the system at configuration time
and the appropriate device or network interface driver is then compiled
into the system.  When the resultant system is booted, the
autoconfiguration facilities in the system probe for the device
and, if found, enable the software support for it.
If a device does not respond at autoconfiguration
time it is not accessible at any time afterwards.
To enable a device which did not autoconfigure,
the system will have to be rebooted.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
The autoconfiguration system is described in
D 2
.IR autoconf (4).
E 2
I 2
.Xr autoconf 4 .
E 2
A list of the supported devices is given below.
D 2
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(4),
intro(4N),
autoconf(4),
config(8).
.PP
Building 4.3BSD UNIX Systems with \fIConfig\fP (SMM:2)
.SH "LIST OF DEVICES"
E 2
I 2
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr autoconf 4 ,
.Xr config 8 .
.Rs
.%T "Building 4.3 BSD UNIX Systems with Config (SMM:2)"
.Re
.Sh LIST OF DEVICES
E 2
The devices listed below are supported in this incarnation of
the system.  Pseudo-devices are not listed.
Devices are indicated by their functional interface.
Occasionally, new devices of a similar type may be added
simply by creating appropriate table entries in the driver;
D 2
e.g. new CS/80 drives.
.sp
.ta 1.0i
.nf
E 2
I 2
for example, new
.Tn CS/80
drives.
.Bl -column grf/ite -offset indent
E 2
ct	7946/9144 CS/80 cartridge tape
dca	98644 built-in serial interface
I 2
dcl	HP 98628A communications link
dcm	HP 98642A communications multiplexer
E 2
dma	98620B DMA controller
I 2
dv	HP98730 ``DaVinci'' device interface
gb	 HP98700 ``Gatorbox'' device interface
E 2
grf/ite	Topcat/Gatorbox/Renaissance frame buffer
hil	HIL interface
hpib	Built-in and 98625 HP-IB interface
I 2
ite	HP Internal Terminal Emulator
E 2
le	98643 Lance-based ethernet interface
I 2
mem	main memory
E 2
ppi	HP-IB printer/plotter interface
I 2
rb	HP98720 ``Renaissance'' device interface
E 2
rd	CS/80 disk interface
I 2
rmp	HP Remote Maintenance Protocol family
st	CCS SCSI tape drive
tc	HP98544-98550 ``Topcat'' and ``Catseye'' device interface
.El
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Tn HP300
.Nm intro
appeared in
.Bx 4.3 Reno .
E 2
E 1
