h18819
s 00002/00002/00137
d D 8.1 93/06/09 19:14:06 bostic 5 4
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00000/00005/00139
d D 5.3 93/06/09 19:14:03 bostic 4 2
c fixed the under development line
e
s 00002/00002/00142
d R 8.1 93/06/05 13:41:20 bostic 3 2
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00107/00042/00037
d D 5.2 91/03/27 23:24:47 cael 2 1
c macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00079/00000/00000
d D 5.1 90/06/29 19:04:15 bostic 1 0
c date and time created 90/06/29 19:04:15 by bostic
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 2
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
E 2
I 2
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
E 2
.\" All rights reserved.
E 5
I 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 5
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Systems Programming Group of the University of Utah Computer
.\" Science Department.
.\"
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
.\"
D 2
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
I 2
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
.\"
D 2
.TH ITE 4 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
ite \- HP Internal Terminal Emulator
.SH DESCRIPTION
TTY special files of the form ``ttye?''
are interfaces to the HP ITE for bit-mapped displays as implemented under BSD.
An ITE is the main system console on most HP300 workstations and
E 2
I 2
.Dd %Q%
.Dt ITE 4 hp300
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ite
.Nd
.Tn HP
Internal Terminal Emulator
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Tn TTY
special files of the form ``ttye?''
are interfaces to the
.Tn HP ITE
for bit-mapped displays as implemented under
.Bx .
An
.Tn ITE
is the main system console on most
.Tn HP300
workstations and
E 2
is the mechanism through which a user communicates with the machine.
If more than one display exists on a system,
D 2
any or all can be used as ITEs with the limitation that only the first
E 2
I 2
any or all can be used as
.Tn ITE Ns s
with the limitation that only the first
E 2
one opened will have a keyboard (since only one keyboard is supported).
D 2
.PP
ITE devices use the HP-UX ``300h''
.IR termcap (5)
E 2
I 2
.Pp
.Tn ITE
devices use the
.Tn HP-UX
.Sq Li 300h
.Xr termcap 5
E 2
or
D 2
.I terminfo
E 2
I 2
.Xr terminfo 5
E 2
entries.
However, as currently implemented,
D 2
the ITE does not support the full range of HP-UX capabilities for this device.
E 2
I 2
the
.Tn ITE
does not support the full range of
.Tn HP-UX
capabilities for this device.
E 2
Missing are multiple colors, underlining, blinking, softkeys,
programmable tabs, scrolling memory and keyboard arrow keys.
The keyboard does not have any of the international character
D 2
support of HP's NLS system.
E 2
I 2
support of
.Tn HP Ns 's
.Tn NLS
system.
E 2
It does use the left and right
D 2
.I "extend char"
E 2
I 2
.Em extend char
E 2
keys as meta keys, in that it will set the eighth bit of the character code.
D 2
.PP
Upon booting, the kernel will first look for an ITE device
to use as the system console (/dev/console).
E 2
I 2
.Pp
Upon booting, the kernel will first look for an
.Tn ITE
device
to use as the system console
.Pq Pa /dev/console .
E 2
If a display exists at any hardware address, it will be the console.
The kernel looks for, in order:
a 98544, 98545, or 98547 Topcat display,
a 98700 Gatorbox at a supported address (see
D 2
.IR gb (4)),
E 2
I 2
.Xr gb 4 ) ,
E 2
or a 98720 Renaissance at a supported address (see
D 2
.IR rb (4)).
Currently there is no ITE support for the
E 2
I 2
.Xr rb 4 ) .
Currently there is no
.Tn ITE
support for the
E 2
98548, 98549, 98550 and 98556 boards.
D 2
.PP
When activated as an ITE (special file opened),
E 2
I 2
.Pp
When activated as an
.Tn ITE
(special file opened),
E 2
all displays go through a standard initialization sequence.
The frame buffer is cleared,
D 2
the ROM fonts are unpacked and loaded into off-screen storage and
E 2
I 2
the
.Tn ROM
fonts are unpacked and loaded into off-screen storage and
E 2
a cursor appears.
D 2
The ITE initialization routine also sets the colormap entry used to white.
E 2
I 2
The
.Tn ITE
initialization routine also sets the colormap entry used to white.
E 2
Variable colors are not used, mainly for reasons of simplicity.
The font pixels are all set to 0xff and the colormap entry corresponding
to all planes is set to R=255, G=255 and B=255.
The actual number of planes used to display the characters depends
on the hardware installed.
D 2
Finally, if the keyboard HIL device is not already assigned to another
ITE device, it is placed in ``cooked'' mode and assigned to this ITE.
.PP
E 2
I 2
Finally, if the keyboard
.Tn HIL
device is not already assigned to another
.Tn ITE
device, it is placed in ``cooked'' mode and assigned to this
.Tn ITE .
.Pp
E 2
On most systems,
D 2
a display is used both as an ITE (/dev/ttye? aka /dev/console)
and as a graphics device (/dev/grf?).
E 2
I 2
a display is used both as an
.Tn ITE
.Pf ( Pa /dev/ttye?
aka
.Pa /dev/console )
and as a graphics device
.Pq /dev/grf? .
E 2
In this environment,
there is some interaction between the two uses that should be noted.
D 2
For example, opening /dev/grf0 will deactivate the ITE,
that is, write over whatever may be on the ITE display.
When the graphics application is finished and /dev/grf0 closed,
the ITE will be reinitialized with the frame buffer cleared
and the ITE colormap installed.
.SH SEE ALSO
grf(4), hil(4), gb(4), rb(4), tc(4)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None under BSD.
E 2
I 2
For example, opening
.Pa /dev/grf0
will deactivate the
.Tn ITE ,
that is, write over whatever may be on the
.Tn ITE
display.
When the graphics application is finished and
.Pa /dev/grf0
closed,
the
.Tn ITE
will be reinitialized with the frame buffer cleared
and the
.Tn ITE
colormap installed.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
None under
.Bx .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr grf 4 ,
.Xr hil 4 ,
.Xr gb 4 ,
.Xr rb 4 ,
.Xr tc 4
D 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver
.Ud
E 4
E 2
E 1
