h21308
s 00002/00002/00058
d D 8.1 93/06/05 13:41:33 bostic 3 2
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00057/00036/00003
d D 5.2 91/03/27 23:24:49 cael 2 1
c macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00039/00000/00000
d D 5.1 90/06/29 18:58:36 bostic 1 0
c date and time created 90/06/29 18:58:36 by bostic
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 2
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 2
I 2
D 3
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 3
I 3
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 3
E 2
.\"
D 2
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
I 2
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
E 2
.\"
D 2
.TH MEM 4 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
mem, kmem \- main memory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.lg
.I Mem
is a special file that is an image of the main memory
of the computer.
It may be used, for example, to examine
(and even to patch) the system.
.PP
Byte addresses in
.I mem
are interpreted as physical memory addresses.
References to non-existent locations cause errors to be returned.
On the HP300, the last byte of physical memory is always
0xFFFFFFFF.
Hence, on an HP300 with 8Mb of memory, physical memory would
start at 0xFF800000.
.PP
E 2
I 2
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.Dd %Q%
.Dt MEM 4 hp300
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mem ,
.Nm kmem
.Nd main memory
.Sh DESCRIPTION
E 2
The file
D 2
.I kmem
is the same as 
.I mem
except that kernel virtual memory
rather than physical memory is accessed.
Only kernel virtual addresses that are mapped to memory are allowed.
On the HP300, kernel virtual memory runs from 0 to about 0x2400000.
.SH FILES
/dev/mem
.br
/dev/kmem
E 2
I 2
.Nm /dev/mem
is an interface to the physical memory of the
computer.
Byte offsets in this file are interpreted as physical memory addresses.
Reading and writing this file is equivalent to reading and writing
memory itself.
An error will be returned if an attempt is made to reference
an offset outside of
.Nm /dev/mem .
.Pp
Kernel virtual memory is accessed via the file
.Nm /dev/kmem
in the same manner as
.Nm /dev/mem .
Only kernel virtual addresses that are currently mapped to memory are allowed.
.Sh HP300
On the
.Tn HP300 ,
the last byte of physical memory is always
.Li 0xFFFFFFFF .
Therefore, on an
.Tn HP300
with
8Mb of memory, physical memory would start
at
.Li 0xFF800000 .
On the
.Tn HP300 ,
kernel virtual memory runs from
.Li 0
to about
.Li 0x2400000 .
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/kmem -compact
.It Pa /dev/mem
.It Pa /dev/kmem
.El
.Sh HISTORY
The files
.Nm mem
and
.Nm kmem
appeared in
.At v6 .
E 2
E 1
