h61318
s 00003/00004/00198
d D 8.2 93/11/30 16:49:33 mckusick 7 6
c copy edit changes from Usenix
e
s 00002/00002/00200
d D 8.1 93/06/09 19:15:26 bostic 6 5
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00000/00005/00202
d D 5.4 93/06/09 19:15:22 bostic 5 3
c fixed the under development line
e
s 00002/00002/00205
d R 8.1 93/06/05 13:42:22 bostic 4 3
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00002/00002/00205
d D 5.3 91/07/31 23:09:34 cael 3 2
c fix macro request
e
s 00148/00099/00059
d D 5.2 91/03/27 23:24:55 cael 2 1
c macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00158/00000/00000
d D 5.1 90/06/29 19:04:11 bostic 1 0
c date and time created 90/06/29 19:04:11 by bostic
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 2
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
E 2
I 2
D 6
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
E 2
.\" All rights reserved.
E 6
I 6
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 6
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Systems Programming Group of the University of Utah Computer
.\" Science Department.
.\"
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
.\"
D 2
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
I 2
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
.\"
D 2
.TH ST 4 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
st \- CCS SCSI tape driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "tape st0 at scsi? slave ?"
.SH DESCRIPTION
E 2
I 2
.Dd %Q%
.Dt ST 4 hp300
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm \&st
.Nd
.Tn CCS SCSI
tape driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "tape st0 at scsi? slave ?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
E 2
The
D 2
.I st
driver was written especially to support the Exabyte EXB-8200 8MM Cartridge 
E 2
I 2
.Nm \&st
driver was written especially to support the Exabyte
.Tn EXB-8200 8MM
Cartridge 
E 2
Tape Subsystem.  It has several extensions specific to the Exabyte,
but should support other tape drives as long has they follow
D 2
the ANSI SCSI-I specification.  Besides extensive use with
E 2
I 2
the
.Tn ANSI SCSI-I
specification.  Besides extensive use with
E 2
an Exabyte, the driver has been tested with an
D 2
Archive QIC-24 tape drive.
E 2
I 2
Archive
.Tn QIC-24
tape drive.
E 2
The
D 2
.I st
E 2
I 2
.Nm \&st
E 2
tape interface provides a standard tape drive interface 
as described in
D 2
.IR mtio (4)
E 2
I 2
.Xr mtio 4
E 2
with the following exceptions:
D 2
.TP 3
1.
E 2
I 2
.Bl -enum
.It
E 2
Density is dependent on device type.  Current Exabyte hardware has
D 2
only one density. The EXB-8500 drive, when released, will have a high
density format of 5.6GB.
On an Archive QIC-24 drive the driver reads both QIC-11 and QIC-24 formats
but writes only QIC-24.
.TP 3
2.
E 2
I 2
only one density. The
.Tn EXB-8500
drive, when released, will have a high
density format of
.Tn 5.6GB .
On an Archive
.Tn QIC-24
drive the driver reads both
.Tn QIC-11
and
.Tn QIC-24
formats
but writes only
.Tn QIC-24 .
.It
E 2
Only the ``raw'' interface is supported.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.El
.Pp
E 2
Special Exabyte Support:
D 2

The MTIOCGET ioctl call on an Exabyte returns this structure:

.nf
E 2
I 2
.Pp
The
.Dv MTIOCGET
.Xr ioctl 2
call on an Exabyte returns this structure:
.Bd -literal
E 2
struct	mtget {
D 2
              short mt_type;   /* type of magtape device */
              short mt_dsreg;  /* sc_flags */
              short mt_erreg;  /* high 8 bytes error status */
                               /* low  8 bytes percentage of Rewrites
                                  if writing, ECC errors if reading */
              short mt_resid;  /* Mbyte until end of tape */
E 2
I 2
	short mt_type;   /* type of magtape device */
	short mt_dsreg;  /* sc_flags */
	short mt_erreg;  /* high 8 bytes error status */
	/* low  8 bytes percentage of Rewrites
	if writing, ECC errors if reading */
	short mt_resid;  /* Mbyte until end of tape */
E 2
};
D 2
.fi

E 2
I 2
.Ed
.Pp
E 2
Bit 4 in the minor device number is used
to select long filemarks or short filemarks. A long filemark occupies
2.12 MBytes of space on the tape, while a short filemark occupies 488 KBytes.
A long filemark includes an erase gap while the short filemark does not.
D 2
The tape can be positioned on the BOT side of a long filemark allowing
E 2
I 2
The tape can be positioned on the
.Tn BOT
side of a long filemark allowing
E 2
data to be appended with a write operation.  Since the short filemark does not
contain an erase gap which would allow writing it is considered to be
non-erasable.  If either type of filemark is followed by blank tape,
D 2
data may be appended on its EOT side.

E 2
I 2
data may be appended on its
.Tn EOT
side.
.Pp
E 2
Bit 5 in the minor device number selects fixed block mode with a block
size of 1K.  Variable length records are the default if bit 5 is not
set.
D 2

E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
For unit 0 here are the effects of minor device bits 2,3,4,5. For other
units add the
D 2
.I unit#
E 2
I 2
.Em unit#
E 2
to each of the device names.
D 2

.(b M
.nf
       norewind    high density    short filemarks    fixed block mode
rst0                                                   
nrst0      X                                           
rst8                      X                            
nrst8      X              X                            
rst16                                     X        
nrst16     X                              X        
rst24                     X               X        
nrst24     X              X               X        
rst32                                                        X
nrst32     X                                                 X
rst40                     X                                  X
nrst40     X              X                                  X
rst48                                     X                  X
nrst48     X                              X                  X
rst56                     X               X                  X
nrst56     X              X               X                  X

.fi
.)b
.SH BUGS

The HP 98268 SCSI controller hardware can not do odd length DMA
transfers.  If odd length DMA I/O is requested the driver will use the
"Program Transfer Mode" of the Fujitsu MB87030 chip. Read requests are
normally even length for which a DMA transfer is used. If, however, the
E 2
I 2
.Bl -column norewind density filemarks -offset indent
.Em norewind	high	short	fixed
.Em 	density	filemarks	block mode
rst0
nrst0	X
rst8		X
nrst8	X	X
rst16			X
nrst16	X		X
rst24		X	X
nrst24	X	X	X
rst32				X
nrst32	X			X
rst40		X		X
nrst40	X	X		X
rst48			X	X
nrst48	X		X	X
rst56		X	X	X
nrst56	X	X	X	X
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mt 1 ,
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr mtio 4 ,
.Rs
.%T EXB-8200 8MM Cartridge Tape Subsystem Interface User Manual.
.Re
D 5
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm \&st
driver
.Ud
E 5
.Sh BUGS
The
.Tn HP
98268
.Tn SCSI
controller hardware can not do odd length
.Tn DMA
transfers.  If odd length
.Tn DMA I/O
is requested the driver will use the
"Program Transfer Mode" of the Fujitsu
.Tn MB87030
chip. Read requests are
normally even length for which a
.Tn DMA
transfer is used. If, however, the
E 2
driver detects that a odd length read has happened (when a even length
D 2
was requested) it will issue the EIO error and the last byte of the read
E 2
I 2
was requested) it will issue the
.Dv EIO
error and the last byte of the read
E 2
data will be 0x00. Odd length read requests must match the size of the
requested data block on tape.
D 2

E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
The following only applies when using long filemarks. Short filemarks can
not be overwritten.
D 2

.(q
.in +4
E 2
I 2
.Bd -filled -offset 4n
E 2
Due to the helical scan and the erase mechanism, there is a writing
D 2
limitation on Exabyte drives. "tar r" or "tar u" will not work ("tar c"
E 2
I 2
limitation on Exabyte drives.
.Dq Li tar r
or
.Dq Li tar u
will not work
.Pf ( Dq Li tar c
E 2
is ok).  One can only start writing at  1) beginning of tape, 2) on the
end of what was last written, 3) "front" side of a regular (long) filemark.
D 7
Say you have a tape with 3 tar files on it, want to save the first
file, and want to begin writing over the 2nd file.
D 2

E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
On a normal 1/4" or 1/2" drive you would do:
E 7
I 7
For example, you have a tape with 3 tar files. If you want to save the first 
file, but overwrite the second two files with new data, on a normal
1/4" or 1/2" drive you would do:
E 7
D 2

"mt fsf 1; tar cf /dev/nrst0 ..."

E 2
I 2
.Pp
.Li "mt fsf 1; tar cf /dev/nrst0 ..."
.Pp
E 2
but for an Exabyte you need to do:
D 2

"mt fsf 1; mt bsf 1; mt weof 1; tar cf /dev/nrst0 ..."

E 2
I 2
.Pp
.Li "mt fsf 1; mt bsf 1; mt weof 1; tar cf /dev/nrst0 ..."
.Pp
E 2
The regular long filemark consists of an erased zone 3.8" long
(needed to begin a write).  In this case, the first filemark is
D 2
rewritten in place, which creates an erased zone AFTER it, clearing the
E 2
I 2
rewritten in place, which creates an erased zone
.Em after
it, clearing the
E 2
way to write more on the tape.  The erase head is not helical.
D 2

E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
One can position a tape to the end of what was last written by reading
D 2
until a "BLANK CHECK" error is returned.  Writing can be started at this
E 2
I 2
until a
D 3
.Tn \*(qBLANK CHECK\*(q
E 3
I 3
.Tn \*qBLANK CHECK\*q
E 3
error is returned.  Writing can be started at this
E 2
point.  (This applies to both long and short filemarks.)  The tape does
not become positioned somewhere down the "erased" area as does a
D 2
conventional magtape.  One can issue multiple reads at the "BLANK
CHECK" error, but the Exabyte stays positioned at the beginning of the
E 2
I 2
conventional magtape.  One can issue multiple reads at the
D 3
.Tn \*(qBLANK CHECK\*(q
E 3
I 3
.Tn \*qBLANK CHECK\*q
E 3
error, but the Exabyte stays positioned at the beginning of the
E 2
blank area, ready to accept write commands.  File skip operations do
not stop at blank tape and will run into old data or run to the end of
D 2
the tape, so you have to be careful not to "mt fsf too_many".
.in -4
.q)

E 2
I 2
the tape, so you have to be careful not to
.Dq Li mt fsf too_many .
.Ed
.Pp
E 2
Archive support gets confused if asked to moved more filemarks than there are
on the tape.
D 2

E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
This man page needs some work.  Some of these are not really bugs,
just unavoidable consequences of the hardware.
D 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mt(1),
tar(1),
mtio(4),

.I "EXB-8200 8MM Cartridge Tape Subsystem Interface User Manual."
E 2
E 1
