h03275
s 00002/00002/00148
d D 8.1 93/06/09 19:15:36 bostic 5 4
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00000/00005/00150
d D 5.3 93/06/09 19:15:33 bostic 4 2
c fixed the under development line
e
s 00002/00002/00153
d R 8.1 93/06/05 13:42:29 bostic 3 2
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00108/00073/00047
d D 5.2 91/03/27 23:24:56 cael 2 1
c macro and text revision (-mdoc version 3)
e
s 00120/00000/00000
d D 5.1 90/06/29 19:04:13 bostic 1 0
c date and time created 90/06/29 19:04:13 by bostic
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 2
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
E 2
I 2
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
E 2
.\" All rights reserved.
E 5
I 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 5
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Systems Programming Group of the University of Utah Computer
.\" Science Department.
.\"
.\" %sccs.include.redist.man%
.\"
D 2
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
I 2
.\"     %W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 2
.\"
D 2
.TH TC 4 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
tc \- HP98544-98550 ``Topcat'' and ``Catseye'' device interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
This driver is for the HP98544, 98545 and 98547 ``Topcat''
and HP98548, 98549, and 98550 ``Catseye'' display cards.
E 2
I 2
.Dd %Q%
.Dt TC 4 hp300
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm \&tc
.Nd
.Tn HP98544
98550 ``Topcat'' and ``Catseye'' device interface
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This driver is for the
.Tn HP98544 ,
98545 and 98547 ``Topcat''
and
.Tn HP98548 ,
98549, and 98550 ``Catseye'' display cards.
E 2
This driver merely checks for the existence of the device
and does minimal set up, as it is expected the applications will initialize
the device to their requirements.
The Topcat and Catseye are nearly identical in common usage and only the
Topcat will be referred to from now on.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
The Topcat display cards are not user configurable.  If one is present on a
system, it will always have a frame buffer address of 0x200000 and a control
D 2
register address of 0x560000.  These are the HP series 300 ITE (Internal
E 2
I 2
register address of 0x560000.  These are the
.Tn HP
series 300
.Tn ITE
(Internal
E 2
Terminal Emulator) defaults.  The device can also be used as a graphics output
device.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
The 
D 2
.IR ioctl (2)
calls supported by the BSD system for the Topcat are:
.TP
GRFIOCGINFO
E 2
I 2
.Xr ioctl 2
calls supported by the
.Bx
system for the Topcat are:
.Bl -tag -width GRFIOCGINFO
.It Dv GRFIOCGINFO
E 2
Get Graphics Info
D 2
.sp
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
Get info about device, setting the entries in the
D 2
.I grfinfo
structure, as defined in <hpdev/grfioctl.h>.
E 2
I 2
.Ar grfinfo
structure, as defined in
.Aq Pa hpdev/grfioctl.h .
E 2
For the 98544 or 98549,
the number of planes should be 1, as they are monochrome devices.
The number of planes for a 98545 is 4, translating to 15 colors,
excluding black.
The 98547 and 98548 cards have 6 planes, yielding 63 colors and black.
The 98550 has 8 planes, yielding 255 colors and black.
The displayed frame buffer size for the 98549 and 98550 is 2048 x 1024,
for the others it is 1024 x 768.
D 2
.TP
GRFIOCON
E 2
I 2
.It Dv GRFIOCON
E 2
Graphics On
D 2
.sp
Turn graphics on by enabling CRT output.  The screen will come on, displaying
E 2
I 2
.Pp
Turn graphics on by enabling
.Tn CRT
output.  The screen will come on, displaying
E 2
whatever is in the frame buffer, using whatever colormap is in place.
D 2
.TP
GRFIOCOFF
E 2
I 2
.It Dv GRFIOCOFF
E 2
Graphics Off
D 2
.sp
Turn graphics off by disabling output to the CRT.  The frame buffer contents
E 2
I 2
.Pp
Turn graphics off by disabling output to the
.Tn CRT .
The frame buffer contents
E 2
are not affected.
D 2
.TP
GRFIOCMAP
E 2
I 2
.It Dv GRFIOCMAP
E 2
Map Device to user space
D 2
.sp
E 2
I 2
.Pp
E 2
Map in control registers and framebuffer space. Once the device file is
mapped, the frame buffer structure is accessible.  The frame buffer structure
D 2
describing Topcat/Catseye devices is defined in <hpdev/grf_tcreg.h>.
.PP
For further information about the use of ioctl see the man page.
.SH EXAMPLE
E 2
I 2
describing Topcat/Catseye devices is defined in
.Aq Pa hpdev/grf_tcreg.h .
.El
.Pp
For further information about the use of
.Xr ioctl
see the man page.
.Sh EXAMPLE
E 2
A small example of opening, mapping and using the device is given below.
For more examples of the details on the behavior of the device, see the device
dependent source files for the X Window System, in the
D 2
.I /usr/src/new/X/libhp
E 2
I 2
.Pa /usr/src/new/X/libhp
E 2
directory.
D 2
.DS
{
    struct tcboxfb *tc;
    u_char *Addr, frame_buffer;
    struct grfinfo gi;
    int disp_fd;
E 2
I 2
.Bd -literal 
struct tcboxfb *tc;
u_char *Addr, frame_buffer;
struct grfinfo gi;
int disp_fd;
E 2

D 2
      disp_fd = open("/dev/grf0",1);
E 2
I 2
disp_fd = open("/dev/grf0",1);
E 2

D 2
      if (ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCGINFO, &gi) < 0) return -1;
E 2
I 2
if (ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCGINFO, &gi) < 0) return -1;
E 2

D 2
      (void) ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCON, 0);
E 2
I 2
(void) ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCON, 0);
E 2

D 2
      Addr = (u_char *) 0;
      if (ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCMAP, &Addr) < 0) {
           (void) ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCOFF, 0);
           return -1;
      }
      tc = (tcboxfb *) Addr;                          /* Control Registers   */
      frame_buffer = (u_char *) Addr + gi.gd_regsize; /* Frame buffer memory */
E 2
I 2
Addr = (u_char *) 0;
if (ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCMAP, &Addr) < 0) {
	(void) ioctl (disp_fd, GRFIOCOFF, 0);
	return -1;
E 2
}
D 2
.DE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ioctl(2), grf(4)
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/crt9837, /dev/crt98550  'u
/dev/grf?	BSD special file
.br
/dev/crt9837, /dev/crt98550  HP-UX \fIstarbase\fP special files
.br
/dev/MAKEDEV.hpux	script for creating HP-UX special files
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
[ENODEV]
E 2
I 2
tc = (tcboxfb *) Addr;                          /* Control Registers   */
frame_buffer = (u_char *) Addr + gi.gd_regsize; /* Frame buffer memory */
.Ed
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/MAKEDEV.hpux -compact
.It Pa /dev/grf?
.Bx
special file
.It Pa /dev/crt9837
.It Pa /dev/crt98550
.Tn HP-UX
.Em starbase
special files
.It Pa /dev/MAKEDEV.hpux
script for creating
.Tn HP-UX
special files
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
None under
.Bx .
.Tn HP-UX
.Tn /usr/CE.utilities/Crtadjust
programs must be used.
.Sh ERRORS
.Bl -tag -width [EINVAL]
.It Bq Er ENODEV
E 2
no such device.
D 2
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
E 2
I 2
.It Bq Er EBUSY
E 2
Another process has the device open.
D 2
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
Invalid ioctl specification.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None under BSD.
.br
HP-UX /usr/CE.utilities/Crtadjust programs must be used.
E 2
I 2
.It Bq Er EINVAL
Invalid
.Xr ioctl
specification.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
.Xr grf 4
D 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver
.Ud
E 4
E 2
E 1
