.TH PSFIG 1
.SH NAME
psfig \- a troff preprocessor for PostScript figures
.SH SYNTAX
.B psfig
[
.B \-D<search-dir>
] [
.B \-d<draft-level>
]
[ file ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Psfig
is a preprocessor for
.IR ditroff (1)
that permits direct inclusion of PostScript figures and
special effects into a document.
The input files are copied to the standard output, except
for lines between .F+ and .F\- commands, which are assumed
to contain 
.I psfig
commands. If no input files are given, 
.I psfig
reads the standard input, so it may be used as part of
a pipe to ditroff.
The 
.I -D<dir>
option specifies a directory in which to search for files. Any number of
these may be specified, and they will be searched in turn. The current 
directory is always searched first.
.PP
The 
.I \-mpsfig
argument must be given to 
.IR ditroff , 
whose output is passed to
.IR psdit ,
the ditroff to postscript conversion program supplied
with the Transcript package,
which produces the final output.
.PP 
.I Psfig
commands are enclosed between `.F+' and `.F-' macros in your document.
The simplest 
.I psfig
command is the word `figure', followed by the name of
a PostScript file. 
For example,
.PP
	\.F+
.br
	figure image.ps
.br
	\.F-
.PP
would include the figure in `image.ps' into your document as a centered
display.
.I Psfig
uses bounding box information from the PostScript file to decide where
the figure is normally printed on the page, then performs the
appropriate translation to move the figure to the current spot
on the 
.I ditroff
page.
The proper amount of space is reserved so that the figure doesn't
conflict with anything else on the page. Adding an `L' argument to
`.F+' would force the figure to be flush left.
.PP
Several options may be specified on the `figure' command,
including `height' or `width' followed by a troff value, which
would shrink or enlarge the figure to the specified measurement. If either
a height and a width is specified, but not both, then the figure is scaled
equally so that the shape of the figure is maintained. For example
.PP
	\.F+
.br
	figure image.ps height 1i
.br
	\.F-
.PP
would include `image.ps' scaled so that it has a vertical edge of one inch.
.PP
For 
.I psfig
to properly scale and move a figure, it must be able to tell what 
it's natural size and position on the page are. This is usually specified by
the bounding box comment in the PostScript file. Unfortunately, some 
applications (including MacDraw) do not provide this information. 
In this case you can add the clause `bounds \fIllx lly urx ury\fP' to 
the figure command, manually specifying the bounding box of the figure.
The four coordinates are, respectively, the lower left \fIx\fP coordinate,
the lower left \fIy\fP coordinate, the upper right \fIx\fP coordinate, and
the upper right \fIy\fP coordinate of the figure's bounding box, all 
specified in points relative to an origin in the lower left corner of the
page.
.SH "DRAFT MODE"
.PP
If a figure is very expensive to print (say a 100K image) it can be set in
draft mode, printing just an outline box and the name of the file, for all
but the final version of the document. Each 
.I psfig
figure has a level associated with it; the default is 10, but this may be
superseeded with a `level \fIn\fP' clause on the figure command.
.I -d<level>
flag specifies the draft level for
.I psfig
to run at. If the level of a figure exceeds the 
draft level, the figure is printed in draft mode (just an outline box.)
The default draft level is 100, and the default level of a figure is 10.
If just a 
.I \-d
is specified with no level, zero is assumed.
In full draft mode,
.I psfig
is quite flexible. Plain-vanilla 
.I troff
(or even
.IR nroff )
and any generic output device will suffice, so that you can write a paper
on a non-PostScript system in draft mode, then print the final copy on a 
PostScript system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
ditroff(1), transcript(8), psdit(1)
.br
N. Batchelder and T. Darrell,
.ul
Psfig \- A New Ditroff Preprocessor
.br

