.LP
.TH BACKUP10 8T "Tek Local 06/13/77"
.SH NAME
backup10  \-  manipulate PDP-10 BACKUP format magnetic tapes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B backup10
key [ save set name ] [ name ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Backup10
saves and restores files on magnetic tape in PDP-10
BACKUP format (interchange mode).
Its actions are controlled by the
.I key
argument.
The key is a string of characters containing exactly
one function letter and possibly one or more function modifiers.
The
.I save
.I set
field is an optional argument which names the particular save set
with which
.I backup10
should concern itself.
The remaining arguments to the command are
the names of files to be saved or restored.
Only the file portion
of the name (i.e. no directory path name) is significant when
reading or writing the tape.
.PP
The function portion of the key is specified by one of the
following letters:
.TP
.B t
types the names and UNIX block sizes of all files on the
tape.
The sizes are based on the byte count for the particular I/O
mode and may not always be exact.
.TP
.B x
extracts the named files from the tape to the file system.
All files are placed according to the names specified in the
command line.
Thus files with long names and/or directory paths
may be restored even though their tape names are limited to the
PDP-10 name.ext format.
If no file names are specified, all files on
the tape will be extracted onto the current working directory.
.TP
.B r
writes a save set, consisting of the named files, onto
the tape destroying its previous contents.
An EOT mark will be written at the end of the tape.
.TP
.B a
appends a save set, consisting of the named files, to the
end of the tape.  This is the same as
.B r
except that the current contents of the tape will be preserved.
.PP
The following characters may be used in addition to the letter
which selects the function desired:
.TP
.B s
restricts all tape operations to the save set specified as
the first name after the key field.
This either names the save
set written by
.B a
and
.B r
, or restricts the functioning of
.B t
and
.B x
to the indicated save set (rather than the entire tape).
.TP
.B n
gives the tape the name specified as the next
name after the key field
(must be convertible to SIXBIT).
If both
.B s
and
.B n
are specified as keys, then their corresponding fields in the rest
of the command line should be given in the same order as were given
the
.B s
and
.B n
function modifiers.
This option is meaningful only for write and append operations.
.TP
.B v
Normally
.I backup10
does its work silently.
The
.B v
(verbose) option causes it to type the name of each file it treats
preceded by the function letter.
When specified with the
.B t
function letter,
.B v
causes the printing of additional information about each file
(currently its creation time and date and whether
.I backup10
thinks it is binary or ascii).
The verbose option will also cause
.I backup10
to print the tape header identification which is normally suppressed.
.TP
.B c
Normally
.I backup10
ignores computing and verifying checksums for each tape record
since the checksum algorithm involves simulating 36-bit additions
and rotations which will tend to slow things down a bit.
The
.B c
option causes
.I backup10
to compute checksums for each record read from or written to the
tape.
During type and read operations the computed checksum will
be verified against the checksum written on the tape, and during
write and append operations the checksum will be written
onto the tape record.  (Checksumming will increase data reliability
with a sacrifice in speed, but is not necessary when running
.I backup10
on either UNIX or the PDP-10).
.TP
.B 0\-7
This modifier selects the tape drive on which the tape is
mounted.
0 is the default and also the only currently available
drive.
.PP
Normally,
.I backup10
transfers files in ASCII mode with carriage return/line feed pairs
being converted to or from the newline character on reads and writes
and the rubout and null characters being discarded.
The following
letters may be used to select an alternate I/O mode when desired:
.TP
.B b
selects binary byte I/O mode in which the rightmost 8-bit byte
of a PDP-10 word is transferred to or from one PDP-11 8-bit byte.
.TP
.B w
selects binary word I/O mode in which the rightmost two 8-bit
bytes of a PDP-10 word are transferred to or from two PDP-11
8-bit bytes (1 word).
.TP
.B f
selects full PDP-10 word binary I/O mode in which the four
leftmost 8-bit bytes and the remaining 4-bit byte of a PDP-10 word
are transferred to or from five PDP-11 8-bit bytes
(the 4-bit byte is right justified).
.TP
.B p
selects partial PDP-10 word binary I/0 mode in which the
four leftmost 8-bit bytes of a PDP-10 word are transferred to
or from four PDP-11 8-bit bytes (2 words).
.TP
.B e
specifies that ASCII I/O should be done in exact mode
with the file being written to the disk or tape without conversions
between carriage return/line feed pairs and the newline character,
and without the discarding of null and rubout characters.
.TP
.B ~
Since all I/O is byte oriented and PDP-11 bytes are numbered
backwards from right to left, word oriented files will be transferred
by
.I backup10
with the bytes in each word reversed from their order on the PDP-10.
This modifier may be used in all I/O modes to cause
.I backup10
to swap the bytes as they are placed into or removed from each
PDP-11 word, thus effectively
recovering the order in which they are stored on the PDP-10.
If only
byte processing is to be done with the transferred file this option
should not normally be specified.
.SH FILES
/dev/rmt0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
HELP:BACKUP.HLP on the Wilsonville PDP-10.
.SH BUGS
Tapes written on the PDP-10 should be written in interchange mode only.
ASCII file sizes computed by 
.I backup10
are generally not correct in non-exact mode transfer
and can cause (annoying
but unimportant) size errors on PDP-10 BACKUP restores.
Lack of tape positioning commands make appending and writing the
EOT mark extremely cumbersome.
.SP
Tape written with the PDP-20 DUMPER Program are supposed to
be compatible with the PDP-10 BACKUP Tapes.  Unfortunately
DUMPER writes some extra information out on the tape.
PDP-10 BACKUP will correctly ignore this information.
Unfortunately, I have never been able to find out what
this is, so 
.I backup10
will hang if you try to read a DUMPER tape.  DUMPER will
correctly read a
.I backup10
tape.  If you have to use DUMPER, after you have written the
tape, take it to a PDP-10 and pull everything off.  Then re-write
the tape using the PDP-10.  I know this is a kludge
but until we find a better fix, this method works.
.SP
I have never tried anything but source (ascii) transfers on the
VAX, so the binary stuff may not work.
.SH HISTORY
Written by Mike Accetta of Carnegie-Mellon University Computer
Science Department.  Installed and somewhat maintained
by Clement T. Cole of Tek Labs and UCB Berkeley.
### backup10.c ###
