.TH BOOK I 
.SH NAME
book - arrange a file so that data begins on specific columns
.SH SYNOPSIS
book [-fhintu] specification data [data_file(n)]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIBook\fR takes as argument the specification file used by the program
checkin(1) and restructures the ddbs data file(s) so that it is 
precisely aligned with well defined columns.  \fIBook\fR is primarily
used when the need arises to use the sort(1) program rather than
ddsort(1) [to speed the sort process when sorting on more than one
field at a time].
Conveniently, \fIbook\fR allows the user to return the
file, once sorted, to the multi-line format of the standard ddbs
data file (an un\fIbook\fRed version of the file).
Output is sent to standard output.
The output format is controlled by the specification_file.
.sp 1
New line characters are placed between data elements, not
between characters of a data element.
.sp 1
If the -f flag is given, the name of the data file that \fIbook\fR 
is aligning will NOT be written to the user's terminal.
.br
If the -h flag is given, column headers will be placed on the output.
.br
If the -i flag is given, 5 spaces will be placed on the output
file for each item that is longer than one line.
The \fIi\fR option makes the output easier to read when items are
more than one line long.
.br
If the -n flag is given, one new line character is generated
for each item instead of one after 78 or 132 columns.
.br
If the -t flag is given, a new line is given
whenever the output text would go over 78 columns instead
of the usual length of 132 columns.
.br
If the -u flag is given, \fIbook\fR will un\fIbook\fR a \fIbook\fRed
data file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
checkin(DDBS), report(I), checkout(DDBS), ddpr(DDBS),
ddsort(DDBS)
