.TH CHECKIN DDBS 
.SH NAME
checkin(DDBS)	input/append to file and verify each line
.SH SYNOPSIS
checkin [-d dictionary_file] specification_file data_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Checkin reads data into a file and creates the file such that
it has specific key words associated with every entry.
If the name of an existing file is given, the
output from checkin is appended onto the end.
Entries in each field are checked as they are entered to see that they
conform to specifications in the specification file. If there are errors, a 
message is printed and a prompt for the same input line is given.
Certain control characters have special functions as follows:
.br
\fIcontrol x\fR -- causes the current record being input to be flushed; 
input may then be resumed at the beginning of that record.
.br
\fIcontrol a\fR -- causes checkin to skip to the end of the current record. Note that
in this case all keywords are entered in the file but there will be 
no entries for them.
.br
\fIcontrol l (el)\fR -- will use the entry from the previous item.
.br
\fIcontrol n\fR -- causes checkin to skip to the next skip field (see ddcodes).
.br
Keyword definitions and error checking codes are handled by the specification
file (see f_files(DDBS) and ddcodes(DDBS)).

.nf
EXAMPLE
To insert data into ``data_file'', checking entries against limitations
imposed by a dictionary file, type the following command:

% \fBcheckin -d dictionary_file specification_file data_file\fR

A typical session of data entry, prompts included, might look as follows:

\fIdate \fB77/10/56
  \fI>> Bad date format yy-mm-dd
date \fB77-12-01
\fIamount \fBl3.40
  \fI>> l is not a number
amount \fB13.40
\fIname \fBprofessor whoever, head of department of whatever
  \fI>> Entry too long -- max length is 40
\fIname \fBprof whoever, head of dept whatever
$

\fIAnother  item (y or n) \fBy

\fIdate
amount \fB25.00
\fIname \fB``control-x''


\fI*** RECORD FLUSHED ***


Another item (y or n) \fBy\fR

date \fB78-11-30
\fIamount \fB25.0
\fIname \fBPat F.
$ 

\fIAnother item (y or n) \fBn\fR

The data file produced by this checkin session would appear:

dt 77-12-01
amt 13.40
nm prof whoever, head of dept whatever
$
dt 78-11-30
amt 25.0
nm Pat F.
$

The specification file used to prompt the user and to limit the
types of data entered would appear:

xxxxxxxx
s s o i
dt:date:0200000:8:
amt:amount:04:5:
nm:name:0:40:
end:end:0100000:0:

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
ddcodes(DDBS)  ddbs Specification file codes
r_files(II)	ddbs Raw data FILES
f_files(II)	ddbs Specification FILES
.SH NOTES

