.TH COPY 1T "02/09/81 Tek Local"
.SH NAME
copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
copy [-a] [-l] [-n] [-o] [-r] [-d] [-v] [-u] sources destination
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Copy
is a command whose purpose is to enable a UNIX user to copy
contents of directories to another directory.  It is possible to
copy whole file systems since directories are made when needed.
.SP
The contents of the source directories are copied to the
destination directory.  If files, directories, or special files
do not exist at the destination, then they are created with the
same mode or flags of the source.  Also super user may set their
owner and group.  The owner and mode will not be changed if the
destination file exists.  Note that there may be more than one
source directory.  If so, then the effect is the same as if the
command had been issued each with only one source.
.SP
All of the flags in the above synopsis are optional, and those
that are used may appear in any order even after the other arguments.
The flags may also be compressed into a key.
Thus:
.SP
copy -lvo dir1 dir2
.SP
Has the same effect as:
.SP
copy -l dir1 -v dir2 -o
.SP
The flags and arguments are:
.TP
.B \-a
Asks the user before attempting a copy.  If the
response does not begin with a 'y', then a copy will
not be done.  This option also sets the "-d" flag.
.TP
.B \-l
Uses links instead whenever they can be used. Otherwise
a copy is done.  Note that links are never done for
special files or directories.
.TP
.B \-n
Requires the destination file to be new.  If not, then
the copy command will not change the destination file.
Of course the "-n" flag is meaningless for directories.
For special files a "-n" flag is assumed. (i.e. the
destination of a special file must not exist.)
.TP
.B \-o
Only the super user may set this option.  If set then
every file copied will have its owner and group set to
those of the source.  If not set, then the owner will be
that of the user who invoked the program.
.TP
.B \-r
If set, then every directory is recursively examined as
it is encountered. If not set then any directories
that are found will be ignored.
.TP
.B \-d
Asks the user whether a "-r" flag applies when a
directory is discovered.  If the answer does not begin
with a 'y', then the directory will be ignored.
.TP
.B \-v
If the verbose option is set, then all kinds of messages
will be printed that reveal what the program is doing.
.TP
.B \-u
If the unlink option is set,
.I copy
becomes a
.I mv
command.
This is not extremely useful now that the
.I mv
can move a directory to another directory.
.TP
.B sources
.SP
This may be a file,a group of files, a directory or a special file.
They must exist.
If it is not a directory, then the results of
the command will be the same as for the cp command.
.TP
.B destination
.SP
The destination must be either a file or directory
different from the source.  If the source and destination
are anything but directories, then copy will act just
like a cp command.  If both are directories, then copy
will copy each file into the destination directory
according to the flags that have been set. The default
(without flags) is to silently copy as stated above.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Should be self-explanatory
.SH BUGS
The original V6 version used "-ad" not "-d" for the
ask user about a directory flag.
This was changed because the new version uses
scanargs(3) to do the argument scanning.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tar(1), cp(1), mv(1)
.SH HISTORY
Written by Clement T. Cole, Tek Labs, modeled after a V6 version
written by Keith Davis of Rand Corp.
