.TH CREF 1 2/5/73
.SH NAME
cref  \-  make cross reference listing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cref
[
.B \-acilostux123
] name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cref
makes a cross reference listing
of program files in assembler or C format. The files
named as arguments in the command
line are searched for symbols 
in the appropriate syntax.
.PP
The output report is in four columns:
.nf
.PP
(1)	(2)	(3)	(4)
symbol	file	see	text as it appears in file
		below
.PP
.fi
.I Cref
uses either an
.I ignore
file or an
.I only
file.
If the
.B \-i
option is given, the next
argument is taken to be an
.I ignore
file; if the
.B \-o
option is given, the next
argument is taken to be
an
.I only
file.
.I Ignore
and
.I only
files are lists of symbols separated by new lines.
All symbols in an
.I ignore
file
are ignored in columns (1) and (3) of the output.
If an
.I only
file is given, only symbols in that
file appear in column (1).
At most one of
.B \-i
and
.B \-o
may be used.
The default setting
is
.B \-i.
Assembler predefined symbols or C keywords are ignored.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option causes current symbols to be
put in column 3.
In the assembler, the current symbol
is the most recent name symbol;
in C, the current function name.
The
.B \-l
option causes the line number within the file
to be put in column 3.
.PP
The
.B \-t
option causes the next available argument
to be used as the name
of the intermediate temporary
file (instead of /tmp/crt??).
The file is created and
is not removed at the end of the process.
.PP
Options:
.TP 5
.B  a
assembler format (default)
.br
.ns
.TP 5
.B  c
C format input
.br
.ns
.TP 5
.B  i
use
.I ignore
file (see above)
.br
.ns
.TP 5
.B  l
put line number in col. 3 (instead of current symbol)
.br
.ns
.TP 5
.B  o
use
.I only
file (see above)
.br
.ns
.TP 5
.B  s
current symbol in col. 3 (default)
.br
.ns
.TP 5
.B  t
user supplied temporary file
.br
.ns
.TP 5
.B  u
print only symbols that occur exactly once
.br
.ns
.TP 5
.B  x
print only C external symbols
.br
.ns
.TP 5
.B  1
sort output on column 1 (default)
.br
.ns
.TP 5
.B  2
sort output on column 2
.br
.ns
.TP 5
.B  3
sort output on column 3
.PP
.SH FILES
.DT
/tmp/crt??	temporaries
.br
/usr/lib/aign	default assembler 
.I ignore
file
.br
/usr/lib/cign	default C
.I ignore
file
.br
/usr/bin/crpost	post processor
.br
/usr/bin/upost	post processor for
.B \-u
option
.br
/bin/sort	used to sort temporaries
.br
.PP
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
as(1), cc(1)
