.TH DD_CODES (EECS)
.sh NAME

.bd "dd_codes(EECS)	ddbs Format File CODES"
.sh DESCRIPTION

	Each type of data files in the DDBS system has
an associated format file which describes its 
contents.  The first two lines are the same in all format files.
A file which does not contain these lines will not
be accepted as a legal format file by DDBS programs.
All of the subsequent lines correspond to the fields in
each entry in the associated type of data file.
Each format file line is made up of four parts
separated by colons.

	Part one is the field identifier key which precedes
each occurence of the field in all data files associated
with the format file.  

	Part two is a short description of the contents of the field.
This is used by the programs inputdata(EECS), and checkin(EECS) to prompt 
the person entering data in a data file.

	Part three is a data description code indicating, among other things,
the type of data allowed in the field.  The programs checkout(EECS),
verify(EECS), and checkin(EECS) use this information to check that
correct data types have been entered in the files.

	Part four specifies the maximum number of characters allowed
in the field.

	The last line of the format file always begins with
"end" and corresponds to the '$' used to separate
entries in the data files.

	The data description codes are octal, numbers each set bit
indicates the following information about the field:

.in 2i
.ti 0
      01	-- INVISIBLE
.sp
Causes inputdata and checkin to insert
the key name for this field in the file
with no prompting for input

.ti 0
      02	-- DATE (yy-mm-dd)
.sp
Checks an entry for the date formant yy-mm-dd
(checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
      04	-- DOLLAR AMOUNT
.sp
Entry must have a decimal point and there may
be no more than two places after the decimal
point (checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
     010	-- AUTOMATIC
.sp
Keyword and prompt are inserted automatically
in file and written on the terminal by 
inputdata and checkin

.ti 0
     020	-- INTEGER
.sp
Entry must be numbers which may be preceded by 
a minus sign (checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
     040	-- DECIMAL NUMBER
.sp
Entry must be numbers which may be preceded by a
minus sign and may have a decimal point
(checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
    0100	-- SKIP
.sp
Causes checkin and inputdata to skip to the
end of the record in certain instances. All
key words after this field are entered in the 
file but no prompts for input are given

.ti 0
    0200	-- DAY STRING
.sp
Entry must be a day code or group of day codes,
such as "mwf" for Monday Wednesday Friday
(checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
    0400	-- TIME STRING
.sp
Entry must be in the format "hh:mm-hh:mm"
(checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
   01000	-- NOTNUL
.sp
Entry can not be blank (checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
   02000	-- DICTIONARY
.sp
Entry must match an entry in a dictionary of
legal entries for this field (checkin, checkout, and
verify)
dictionary file format:
.sp
		Title

.ti 2i
$keyword
.ti 2i
entry1
.ti 2i
entry2
.ti 2i
etc..

.ti 0
   04000	-- TOOLONG
.sp
Obselete code, all entries are checked to 
make sure they do not exceed the format 
length (checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
  010000	-- KEYTHERE
.sp
Each record must have an entry for this key
word (checkout and verify)

.ti 0
  020000	-- UC NUMBER
.sp
Entry must have the format "yy-x0-xxxxx"
where "x" is any number and "yy" is a year
(checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
  040000	-- TOO SHORT
.sp
Entry must be the length specified in length
field (checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
 0100000	-- END
.sp
Must be the last line of every format file
end:end:0100000:0:q

.ti 0
 0200000	-- DATE (yy-mm-dd)
.sp
Entry must have the format "yy-mm-dd"
(checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
 0400000	-- DATE (mm-yy)
.sp
Entry must have the format "mm-yy"
(checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
01000000	-- POSITIVE
.sp
Entry for this field may not contain a 
minus sign (checkin, checkout, and verify)

.ti 0
02000000	-- UNIQUE
.sp
minus sign (checkin, checkout, and verify)
Entry idententifies record
(possible use in future programs)
.sp

.ti 0
04000000	-- ANY LENGTH
.sp
Entry for this field may be any length

.ti 0
010000000	-- MULTIPLE LINES
.sp
Entry for this field may be several lines
long (use "\\" before you hit return).

.ti 0
020000000	-- MILITARY TIME RANGE (hhmm-hhmm)
.sp
Entry for this field should be a time range 
given in military time.

.ti 0
040000000	-- AUTOMATIC DATE ENTRY 
.sp
The current date will be entered in the format 
specified using one of the date fields. If no 
date format is given a date will not be entered.

.in 0
SAMPLE FORMAT FILE

.ti 0
xxxxxxxx
.ti 0
s s o i
.ti 0
ucn:uc number:060000:11:
.ti 0
dt:date:0400000:5:
.ti 0
bld:building:02000:8:
.ti 0
rm:room:01000020:3:
.ti 0
end:end:0100000:0:
.sp 1
	In the above sample the first second and last lines are required for
any format file.  The rest of the lines describe record entries for a file.
The uc number code "060000" indicates that it must be checked for uc number
format and it must be exactly 11 characters long (this implies that it can't
be blank).  The date code indicates the entry must be in the format "mm-yy".
The building code indicates the entry must be in the dictionary file. And the
room code indicates the entry must be an integer number and it can not start
with a minus sign.
.sh "SEE ALSO"
.nf

r_files(II)	ddbs Raw data files
inputdata(EECS)	input or append to a data file
checkout(EECS)  verify correctness of data file form
verify(EECS)	verify correctness of data file form
checkin(EECS)	input or append to a data file and verify
.sh NOTES

