.TH DDCODES DDBS
.SH NAME
ddcodes(DDBS)	ddbs Specification File CODES
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each type of data files in the DDBS system has an associated 
specification file which describes its contents.  The
first two lines are the same in all specification files.  A
file which does not contain these lines will not be accepted
as a legal specification file by DDBS programs.  All of the
subsequent lines correspond to the fields in each entry in
the associated type of data file.  Each specification file
line is made up of four parts separated by colons.
.PP
Part one is the field identifier key which precedes
each occurence of the field in all data files associated
with the specification file.
.PP
Part two is a short description of the contents of the
field.  This is used by the checkin(DDBS) program to prompt
the person entering data in a data file.
.PP
Part three is a data description code indicating, among
other things, the type of data allowed in the field.  The
programs checkout(DDBS) and checkin(DDBS) use this information 
to check that correct data types have been entered in
the files.  The data description list below provides all the
codes available for this third field. 
.PP
Part four specifies the maximum number of characters
allowed in the field.
.PP
The last line of the specification file always begins
with ``end'' and corresponds to the '$' used to separate
entries in the data files.
.PP
The data description codes are octal numbers; each set
bit indicates the following information about the field:

.IP "00 -- ALPHANUMERIC" 24
Allows entry to be any printing character.

.IP "01 -- INVISIBLE" 24
Causes checkin to insert the key name for
this field in the file with no prompting for
input, leaving the field empty in the data
file except for the key name.  If contents of
a particular field are unknown at the time of
data entry, this code will reserve a field
line in the data file for later insertion of
data through the editor.  (checkin)

.IP "02 -- DATE (yy-mm-dd)" 24
Checks an entry for the date format yy-mm-dd
(checkin and checkout)

.IP "04 -- DOLLAR AMOUNT" 24
Entry must have a decimal point and there may
be no more than two places after the decimal
point (checkin and checkout)

.IP "010 -- AUTOMATIC" 24
Keyword and prompt are inserted automatically
in file and written on the terminal by checkin.  
Useful for repetitious insertion of an
identical piece of information into each
record in the data file.  (checkin)

.IP "020 -- INTEGER" 24
Entry must be numbers which may be preceded
by a minus sign (checkin and checkout)

.IP "040 -- DECIMAL NUMBER" 24
Entry must be numbers which may be preceded
by a minus sign and may have a decimal point
(checkin and checkout)

.IP "0100 -- SKIP" 24
Causes checkin (when control-n is typed by
the user) to skip to the end of the record or
to the next field whose code is also 0100.
All key words after this field are entered in
the data file but no prompts for input are
given.  Useful when dealing with a series of
related fields; if no data is relevant to the
first prompt, all succeeding prompts may be
skipped.  (checkin)
.IP "0200 -- DAY STRING" 24
Entry must be a day code or group of day
codes, such as "mwf" for Monday Wednesday
Friday (checkin and checkout)

.IP "0400 -- TIME STRING" 24
Entry must be in the format "hh:mm-hh:mm"
(checkin and checkout)

.IP "01000 -- NOTNUL" 24
Entry can not be blank (checkin and checkout)

.IP "02000 -- DICTIONARY" 24
Entry must match an entry in a dictionary of
legal entries for this field (checkin and
checkout).  See the DICT manual section for further details.
Dictionary file format:

.nf
          Title

$keyword1
entry1.1
entry1.2
$keyword2
entry2.1
entry2.2
etc..

.IP "04000 -- TOOLONG" 24
All entries are checked to make sure they do
not exceed the format length.  This code is
redundant as all entries are checked by
default for excessive length.  (checkin and
checkout)

.IP "010000 -- KEYTHERE" 24
This key must be in every record if this code 
is specified.  Note that because of a bug in 
the checkout program, this code works by default 
(otherwise, one could have keys in some records 
and not in others).  (checkout)

.IP "020000 -- UC NUMBER" 24
Entry must have the format ``yy-x0-xxxxx''
where "x" is any number and ``yy'' is a year
(checkin and checkout)

.IP "040000 -- TOO SHORT" 24 
Entry must be the length specified in length
field (checkin and checkout)

.IP "0100000 -- END" 24
Must be the last line of every specification file
end:end:0100000:0:  (checkin and checkout)

.IP "0200000 -- DATE (yy-mm-dd)" 24
Entry must have the format ``yy-mm-dd'' (chec-
kin and checkout)

.IP "0400000 -- DATE (mm-yy)" 24
Entry must have the format ``mm-yy'' (checkin
and checkout)

.IP "01000000 -- POSITIVE" 24
Entry for this field may not contain a minus
sign (checkin and checkout)

.IP "02000000 -- UNIQUE" 24
(possible use in future programs)

.IP "04000000 -- ANY LENGTH" 24
Entry for this field may be any length (chec-
kin and checkout)

.IP "010000000 -- MULTIPLE LINES"
Entry for this field may be several lines
long (type ``\\'' before you hit return).  (chec-
kin)

.IP "020000000 -- MILITARY TIME RANGE (hhmm-hhmm)" 24
Entry for this field should be a time range
given in military time.  (checkin and
checkout)

.IP "040000000 -- AUTOMATIC DATE ENTRY" 24
In conjunction with one of the date codes
(02, 020000000) puts the date at time of
entry into each record of the data file,
without prompting the user.  If no date for-
mat is given a date will not be entered.
(checkin)

.PP
SAMPLE SPECIFICATION FILE

.nf
xxxxxxxx
s s o i
ucn:uc number:060000:11:
dt:date:0400000:5:
bld:building:02000:8:
rm:room:01000020:3:
end:end:0100000:0:

.fi
In the above sample the first second and last lines are
required for any specification file. The rest of the lines
describe record entries for a file.  The uc number code ``060000''
indicates that it must be checked for uc number format and it
must be exactly 11 characters long (this implies that it can't be
blank).  The date code indicates the entry must be in the format
``mm-yy''.  The building code indicates the entry must be in the
dictionary file. And the room code indicates the entry must be an
integer number and it can not start with a minus sign.

.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
r_files(II)    ddbs Raw data files
checkout(DDBS)  verify correctness of data file form
checkin(DDBS)  input or append to a data file and verify
.fi
