.TH DDMERGE DDBS 
.SH NAME
ddmerge \*- merge DDBS data files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.bd
ddmerge source_file destination_file key1 [key2 ... keyn] [-ainsALDDEL]
[-l [listfile]] [-r [reportfile]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIDdmerge\fR
is a general purpose DDBS data file updating program.
It attempts to fit each item in the new data file into the old data file.
.SH OPTIONS
-ALD
.in +5
Add items that don't match to the destination file.
.in

-DEL
.in
Delete those items in the destination file that match.
This option should be used with forethought and caution.
.in

-h
.in
Hierarchical keys.  Consider the matching keys to be all parts
of a single hierarchy.  Note that conflicts are impossible
when -h is set.  All items either match or don't match.
.in

-i
.in
``ignore'' - ignore conflicts in the keying fields.
When a source and destination item are found to have
a matching set of keying fields and at least one that does not agree, merge
calls it a ``conflict''.
If -i is used, ANY keying field is the same in both new and old data files
updating will occur.  Without the i option, merge will not update items
only when no conflicts are found.

.in
-s
.in
`summary' - prints a summary of what happened during the merge.

.in
-e
.in
`erase' - allows erasures of fields in the old data base.
Normally, if you leave a field blank in the input file, the 
corresponding field in the target data base will remain unchanged.
But with the `-e' argument given, source items will be copied
into their matching destinations items without regard to blankness.
Uc inventory numbers in incorrect form are considered blank.

.in
-n
.in
`no write' - With the `-n' option set, merge will not change the old
data base at all.  It will only check for matching, missing, and conflicting
data items.

.in
-o
.br
-o filename
.in
Output redirection.  Giving the `-o' option alone causes the
merged destination file to be sent to the standard output.
-o with a file name causes the output to be put into the named
file rather than back into the destination file.
.in

-l
.br
-l listfile
.in
List.  -l causes a list of all the items in the source file which
either failed to match an item in the destination file or conflicted
with an item in the destination file.  The first form causes this list
to be sent to the standard error, the second causes it to be sent
to the file `listfile'.
.in

-r
.br
-r reportfile
.in
Report.  -r causes a report to be produced detailing the problem `ddmerge'
had in trying to merge the source and destination files.  Items reported
here are identified as either those for which no match was found or
those that conflicted.  If -s is sent a summary is printed at the end of
the report.  -r alone sends the report to the standard output.  -r
plus a file name sends the report to the named file.
.in

.SH "Data Protection"
Merge is very conservative with your destination file. 
Nothing is actually changed
in the old data file until the very end of the run.
Merge has a copy of the original old data file with the new changes made on it.
It checks the original against the copy to see that they are the same size
before proceeding.
Merge does not change the new data file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
checkin (DDBS),
checkout (DDBS)
ddpr (DDBS)
ddwc (DDBS)
ddgrep (DDBS)
ddsort (DDBS)
.SH FILES
	/tmp/mta#
.br
	/tmp/mtb#
.br
	/tmp/mtc#
.br
	/tmp/mtc#
.br
	/tmp/mtc#
.br
	/tmp/mtc#	temporary files
.br
	/usr/bin/ddsort
.br
	/bin/sort
.br
	/bin/cp
