.TH DDOP DDBS 
.SH NAME
ddop \*- DDBS operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
ddop [condition] [operation] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.it Ddop
performs a specified operation on each of the items of a DDBS file.
It can create upto one additional field in each item.
For purposes of discussion there are 3 relevant files to ddop:

 1) The INPUT
 2) The OUTPUT
 3) An AUXILIARY file (optional)

Ddop repeatedly reads an item from its INPUT, processes,
possibly looking up information in the AUXILIARY file, then writes it
to the OUTPUT.

The form of the operation argument is:
 			product=field
 				or
 			product=file:field
 				or
 			product=field+file:field
 
This argument determines which operation to perform on which fields.
In the above `+' represents the operation which may be any one of:

	`+'	addition
 	`-'	subtraction
 	`*'	multiplication
 	`/'	division

`field' in the above means the value of the named field in the
item read form the INPUT.
The notation `file:field' (embelded in the above)
means the value of the named field in the
named file (the AUXILIAY file).
`product' in the above is the name of the newly calulated and
added field.


The form of the condition argument is:

 			field==file:field

(Note especially the double equals sign)
This gives a rule for picking out the desired item from the auxiliary file.
The item used from the auxiliary file will have the value of the field
named equal to a the named field from the INPUT file.

      Ddop with no arguments simply copies its standard input to its standard
output.

.SH EXAMPLES
cat ddbs | ddop a=b+c

In the file produced a new field `a' will be produced in each
item whose value is the sum of the fields `b' and `c' in that item.
No auxiliary file is used in this example.


.nf
.na
cat times | ddop ``name==people:name'' ``pay=hours*people:hourly''
.fi
.ad

This is an accouting example.  For each item in the time log,
ddop will look up the hourly rate of the person in the `people'
file and produce and output item including the additional
`pay' field whose value will be the product of the hourly rate
looked up and the number of hours found in the input from the `times' file.

.SH AUTHOR
Len Edmondson
