.TH DITROFF 1 
.SH NAME
troff \- text formatting and typesetting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ditroff
[ option ] ...
[ file ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ditroff
formats text in the named
.I files
for printing on one of a few printers.
Different output devices are selected through the \-P option or
the environment variables PRINTER and TYPESETTER (see \-P below).
Output will go to those devices unless one of the
.B \-t
or
.B \-a
options is specified.  The companion preprocessors, pic, ideal, deqn,
dtbl and grn all accept the PRINTER and TYPESETTER environment
variables too.
.BR 
.IB Troff 's
capabilities are described in the
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual.
.PP
If no
.I file
argument is present, the standard input is read.
An argument consisting of a single minus
.RB ( \- )
is taken to be
a file name corresponding to the standard input.
The options are:
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.BI \-o list
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in
the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.
A range
.IB N \- M
means pages
.I N
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.I \-N
means
from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final
.IR N \-
means
from
.I N
to the end.
.TP
.BI \-n N
Number first generated page
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-m name
Prepend the macro file
.BI /usr/lib/ditmac/tmac. name
to the input
.IR files .
.TP
.BI \-P dest
Prepare output for typesetter
.IR dest .
If no printer is specified, the default is the Imagen (ip).
The environment variable PRINTER will override the default, and
the environment variable TYPESETTER will override PRINTER (except
for output to the lineprinter via \-Pter).  A \-P option will
override all else.
.B \-Pip
(or
.B \-Pimagen )
= Canon/Imagen Laser Printer,
.B \-Pvp
(or
.B \-Pversatec )
= Versatec Electrostatic Plotter,
.B \-Pcx
(or
.B \-Pimagen-cx )
= Canon/Imagen-cx Laser Printer,
.B \-Pdp
(or
.B \-Pxerox )
= Xerox Dandelion Laser Printer,
.B \-Pter
= Line Printer (or terminals if
.B \-t
is specified).
.TP
.B \-I
Prepare the ditroff output for the imagen printer.
.TP
.B \-W
Prepare the ditroff output for the versatec printer.
.TP
.B \-t
Send the ditroff output to standard output.
.TP
.BI \-u N
Set the emboldening factor to
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-r aN
Set register
.I a
(one character name) to
.IR N .
.TP
.B \-i
Read standard input after the input files are exhausted.
.TP
.B \-q
Invoke the simultaneous input-output mode of the
.B rd
request.
.TP
.B \-a
Send a printable ASCII approximation
of the results to the standard output.
.TP
.BI \-F dir
Use font directory
.I dir
instead of /usr/lib/font.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/ditmac/tmac.*  'u
.br
/usr/lib/ditmac/tmac.*	standard macro files
.br
/usr/lib/font/dev*	font width tables
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B \-F
option is not very useful since the same directory
must be available on the machine that drives the printer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
trchange(l) for a list of differences, in
.IR ditroff ,
to TROFF commands
.br
J. F. Ossanna,
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual
.br
B. W. Kernighan,
.I
A TROFF Tutorial
.br
eqn(1), grn(1), ideal(1), pic(1), refer(1),
.br
tbl(1), dterm(1), lpr(1), font(1)
