.TH DL l "9 January 1984"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
dl \- delete files and directories with error-recovery capability
.PP
ud - undelete files or directories deleted by dl
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dl
[
.B \-acdfimnrstu
] [file or directory] ...
.PP
.B ud
[
.B \-i
] [file or directory] ...
.PP
.B ud
[
.B \-ai
]
.SH INTRODUCTION
.I dl
deletes files and directories.  A backup copy of a file or directory is made 
before it is deleted, so that a deleted file or directory can be undeleted with 
a single command: \fIud\fR restores the files or directories in its argument 
list to the current working directory.
.PP
Files are routinely saved only while between
.I dl
commands.  The burden is on the user to undelete a mistakenly deleted file or
directory prior to the next use of the delete command.  This feature prevents
the error-recovery facilities of
.I dl
from spawning a large directory of back-up copies of deleted files.
.PP
Removal of a file requires write permission in its directory, but
neither read nor write permission in the file.  If a user has no write
permission on a file and the input device is a terminal, the file permissions
are displayed, and the user is queried regarding override;  a 'y' response  
enables deletion.  No query is made and no errors are reported if the
.B \-f
(force) option is used.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 7
.B \-
null: (- ) indicates that all following arguments are to be treated as file
names, thus allowing the use of file names that begin with the minus sign. 
.PP
.TP 7
.B \-a
undelete
.B all
items in the user's
.I .dlsave
directory. 
.PP
.TP 7
.B \-c
\fBcopy\fR: same as
.I cp,
except that back-up copies of clobbered files are saved in the in the user's
.I .dlsave
directory, and the file modification time,
.I mtime,
is user-controlled with the
\fB-t\fR option, q.v.
.PP
.TP 7
.B \-d
.B debug
mode: trace statements in
.I dl
source code enabled.
.PP
.TP 7
.B \-f
.B force
mode: no messages or queries; overrides file protection on subject files.
.PP
.TP 7
.B \-i
.B interactive
mode: queries (``delete file
.B foo
?``) and responses (``file
.B foo
deleted.")
.PP
.TP 7
.B \-m
\fBmove\fR: same as
.I mv,
except that back-up copies of clobbered files are saved in the
.I .dlsave
directory.
.PP
.TP 7
.B \-n
.B not
save; converts
.I dl
to work exactly like
.I rm.
Dedicated to UNIX users who are never vexed if a file is unintentionally erased.
Required for removing the
.I .dlsave
directory.
.PP
.TP 7
.B \-r
.B recursive
mode: required if one or more arguments is a directory.  When combined
with the
.B \-c
option, indictes that the object to be copied is a directory.
.PP
.TP 7
.B \-s
\fBsave\fR: bypasses removing previously saved files from the
.I .dlsave
directory when
.I dl
is invoked; permits the accumulation of back-up files by successive invocations
of
.I dl.
This may cause the build-up of a large directory of back-up files; use with
discretion.
.PP
.TP 7
.B \-t
\fBtime\fR-stamp: changes the
.I mtime
(modification time, see
\fIstat\fR(2)) of each subject file to the current date and time if the file is
copied.
.PP
.TP 7
.B \-u
.B undelete
(same as
\fIud\fR): restores to the current working directory those files or
directories named in the argument list.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
When invoked,
.I dl
makes the back-up directory,
.I .dlsave,
in the user's home directory.  If it already exists,
.I dl
empties it, and then places in it the files named in the current command.  The
removal of the files saved by a previous use of
.I dl
can be prevented by including the
.B \-s
(save) option in the current command.  The
.I .dlsave
directory may be emptied at any time by 
.I dl
with no arguments, or removed by ``dl -nr .dlsave", which should be included in
the user's
.I .logout
file (``dl -inr .dlsave" for the cautious user).
.PP
If a named file or directory and the user's home directory both reside on the
same file system, the file or directory is renamed to reside in the user's
.I .dlsave
directory.  Otherwise, a file is copied, or a directory and its contents are copied recursively into
.I .dlsave
(using
.I mkdir
and
.I copy
). The
.B \-r
option must be included when one or more directories are included in the 
argument list. 
.PP
When items are renamed or copied to
.I .dlsave,
``.#" is attached to the front of each name, e.g.
.B foo
is renamed
.B \.#foo
while in the
.I .dlsave 
directory.  If not swept out by a subsequent
.I dl
command, the item will be removed by the system with
.I cron.
.PP
.I dl
can be used with
.I ud
to provide a buffered move (either within or across file systems), since there
is no requirement that a file or directory be undeleted in the same directory in
which it was deleted.  In the case of such use of
.I dl,
the owner's name on moved files becomes that of the current process,
and linking relationships with other files are lost.  If the
.B \-t
option, (time-stamp) is included,
.I mtime
is changed to the current time; otherwise it remains unchanged.
.PP
.I dl
contains copies of
.I cp
and
.I mv,
which may be called with the
.B \-c
and
.B \-m
options, respectively.  Both routines have been enhanced to provide back-up
copies of clobbered files in
.I .dlsave,
and
.I mtime
is not changed unless the
.B \-t
option is included.
.PP
.I ud
is
.I dl
with the
.B \-u 
option.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 12
dl foo
deletes a file named foo, but secretly saves it.
.TP 12
ud foo
brings foo back to the current working directory.
.TP 12
dl foo
deletes foo again (with backup).
.TP 12
dl goo
deletes goo (with backup), but destroys the backup for foo, so that now foo is
really gone.
.TP 12
dl -s shoo
deletes shoo, but does not unlink goo.
.TP 12
ud -a
brings back goo and shoo. 
.TP 12
dl shoo goo
deletes shoo and goo (with backup). 
.TP 12
dl
destroys backup for shoo, goo and anything else secretly saved in the .dlsave
directory.
.TP 12
dl *
deletes the contents of the current working directory.
.TP 12
ud -a
restores the contents of the current working directory.
.SH AUTHOR
Arch Turner. 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rm(1), unlink(2), rmdir(2)
