.TH DVI2X 1
.SH NAME
dvi2x \- display a dvi file in an X window
.SH SYNTAX
dvi2x [-b BitsPerInch] [=(height)x(width)] [-s/--s] [-p/--p] [-f dvi-file-name]
.SH DESCRIPTION
dvi2x reads in a dvi file and all of the fonts it needs,
makes a bitmap display for the X window manager, and 
displays the document in a window.
.PP
The -b option sets the number of bits per inch on your display.
.PP
You can specify a window geometry (in bits) by specifying =(W)x(H), where
W is the width of the window in bits, and H is the height.
.PP
The -s and --s options allow you to turn on and off SunBits mode.  This
is used to solve byte ordering problems.
.PP
The -p and --p options allow you to toggle on and off pk font mode. 
When pk font mode is on dvi2x will try to use PK fonts, otherwise
it will use PXL fonts.
.PP
The commands which are implimented are:
.br
.PP
\fIu\fR
.in 2in
scroll up,
.TP
.br
\fId\fR or \fI' '\fR
.in 2in
scroll down,
.TP 
.br
\fIl\fR
.in 2in
scroll left,
.TP
.br
\fIr\fR
.in 2in
scroll right,
.TP
.br
\fIp\fR
.in 2in
go to the previous page,
.TP
.br
\fIP\fR
.in 2in
go to the same relative spot on the previous page,
.TP
.br
\fIn\fR
.in 2in
go to the next page,
.TP
.br
\fIN\fR
.in 2in
go to the same relative spot on the next page,
.TP
.br
\fIg\fR
.in 2in
go to a specified page in the document,
.TP
.br
\fIc\fR
.in 2in
change to another document,
.TP
.br
\fIR\fR
.in 2in
reread the current document and display at the same position, if that position
exists,
.TP
\fIB\fR
.in 2in
turn on page boundry and physical page boundry borders on,
.TP
.br
\fIM\fR
.in 2in
set a ruler at the current mouse position after prompting
you for the units to use and the length you want (currently you can see
inches,
centimeters, and points),
.TP
.br
\fIm\fR
.in 2in
set a ruler at the current mouse position in the same units and the
same length as the last one set (default is 3 cm),
.TP
.br
\fIt\fR
.in 2in
go to the top left corner of the current page,
.TP
.br
\fI0\fR or \fI^\fR 
.in 2in
go to the first page in the document, where ^
will position you at the top of the first page and 0 will leave you in
the same relative position,
.TP
.br
\fIe\fR or \fI$\fR 
.in 2in
go to the last page in the document where e will 
position you in the same relative position and $ will put you at the top
of the last page,
.TP
.br
\fIF\fR 
.in 2in
toggle full window mode,
.TP
.br
\fI?\fR 
.in 2in
print the font and the magnification of the character 
under the mouse cursor,
.TP
.br
\fIs\fR 
.in 2in
toggle sun byte ordering.  If you are running on a system
and you notice that some of the larger characters are split up, and
there is a bad spacing problem, it might be that there is a byte ordering
problem, in which case you should try this,
(This only seems to be important when you are running the \fBdvi2x\fR
process on a sun, not when you are running it to a sun),
.TP
.br
\fIS\fR 
.in 2in
toggle split screen mode,
.TP
.br
\fIq\fR 
.in 2in
quit.
.PP
All scrolling moves the page by 2/3 of the window
size, i.e. d moves the page down by 2/3 of the window
height, etc.
.PP
When setting a rule in \fIpoints\fR, the points are labeled by tens (i.e. a 
rule of length 100 points will be labeled from 0 through 10).
.PP
When prompted for a file name, ESC, SPACE, RETURN, and ^D will 
do file-name completion.
.PP
\fBdvi2x\fR reads in only pages which are touched (i.e. displayed).
Thus when you display a new page you will get an hour-glass cursor while
\fBdvi2x\fR is processing that page.
This decreases the start-up time enourmously and when you are
debugging a single page of a large document, you can re-read it
with 'R' and only that one page will be reinterpreted before it is
displayed.
.PP
Mail any bugs or (reasonable) complaints and suggestions for improvement
to procter@renoir.Berkeley.EDU.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve Procter
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the DISPLAY enviorment variable is not set, or
your local machine is not running an X server, the program
will say "Couldn't connect to your X server." and exit.
.PP
If the program doesn't have permission to connet to the
server (see the xhost man page), you will get the error 
message "XIO: Broken pipe".
Mail all 
.SH SEE ALSO
Man pages on TeX, lpr, X, xhost.
