.TH DVIIMP 1 LOCAL
.SH NAME
dviimp \- convert DVI files to impress format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dviimp
[ options ] file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dviimp
converts
.I file,
which should be in DVI format, to IMPRESS format for printing on
an Imprint-10 printer.
The options are:
.TP
.B  \-r
Remove the input file when done.
.TP
.BI  \-c n
Prints
.I n
copies.
.TP
.B  \-b
The next argument is printed on the banner page to identify this listing.
.TP
.BI  \-M n
Set the Imprint-10 memory parameter to
.I n,
where 1\(<=n\(<=5.  See the Imprint-10 Programmer's Guide for a
description of this value.
.TP
.B  \-i
The next argument is the name of the output file.
.TP
.B  \-v
Produces more verbose output.
.TP
.B  \-d
Produces extensive output for debugging.
.PP
If the
.B \-i
flag is not used, the output is written to a temporary file and,
upon completion of processing,
.I ipr
is called to spool the output file for printing.  Since the
.B \-b
and 
.B \-c
flags are merely passed to
.I ipr,
they have no effect if
.B \-i
is used.
.SH FILES
/usr/spool/ipd/xf??????
.br
/usr/local/lib/ifonts/raster/*
.SH SEE ALSO
iprint(1), catdvi(1), ipr(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
`No font set' means no font command appears before the first printed
output on a page.  `Page contains too much data' means the page will
not fit in the Imprint-10's internal memory.  `Character 
.I c
not in font
.I f'
and `Character 
.I n
out of range' mean the character is not defined in the font.  `Bad
DVI version
.I n'
means the input file is not a version 1 DVI file.  `Font
.I f
version
.I n'
means this font file is not a version 0 RAS-format file.  Other
diagnostics should be self-explanatory.
.PP
Voluminous output will be generated by using the
.B \-v
and
.B \-d
flags.
.SH AUTHOR
Imagen Corp.
