.TH DVISELECT 1
.SH NAME
dviselect \- extract pages from DVI files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dviselect
[
.B \-s
] [
.B \-i
.I infile
] [
.B \-o
.I outfile
] list of pages [
.I infile
[
.I outfile
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dviselect
selects pages from a DVI file produced by TeX, outputting a new DVI
file usable by any of TeX's conversion program (e.g., iptex), or even
by dviselect itself.
.PP
A
.I range
is a string of the form
.I first\-last
where both
.I first
and
.I last
are optional.  If both
.I first
and
.I last
are omitted, the hyphen may also be omitted, or may be replaced
with an asterisk ``*''.  A
.I page range
is a list of ranges separated by periods.
A list of pages is described by a set
of page ranges separated by commas and/or white space.
.PP
.I Dviselect
actually looks at the ten
.I count
variables that TeX writes; the first of these (\ecount0) is the
page number, with \ecount1 through \ecount9 having varied uses
depending on which macro packages are in use.  (Typically \ecount1
is a chapter or section number.)  A page is included in
.IR dviselect 's
output if all its \ecount values are within any one of the ranges
listed on the command line.  For example, the command
``dviselect *.1,35\-''
might select everything in chapter 1, as well as pages 35 and up.
``dviselect 10\-30'' would select pages 10 through 30 (inclusive).
``\-43'' means everything up to and including page 43;
``*.4 .........1'' might
mean everything in every chapter 4 and an index, presuming \ecount9
was set to 1 in the index.
(Don't forget that ``*'' must be quoted from the shell;
the null string is more convenient to use, if harder to read.)
.PP
More precisely, an asterisk or a null string implies no limit;
a leading hyphen means everything up to and including the given page; a
trailing hyphen means everything from the given page on; and
a period indicates that the next \ecount should be examined.
If less than 10 ranges are specified, the remaining \ecounts
are left unrestricted (that is, ``1\-5'' and ``1\-5.*'' are equivalent).
A single number \fIn\fP is treated as if it were the range \fIn\-n\fP.
An arbitrary number of page selectors may be given, separated by commas
or whitespace; a page is selected if any of the selectors matches
its \ecounts.
.PP
Dviselect normally prints the page numbers of the pages selected; the
.I \-s
option suppresses this.
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Torek, University of Maryland
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dvipr(1), iptex(1), tex(1), \fIThe TeXbook\fP
.SH BUGS
The only way to give a leading ``-'' on the list of pages is to force
the end of options with ``--'' (e.g., ``dviselect -- -3'').
.PP
It is impossible to directly specify negative page numbers (\-0 selects
all negative pages, since they are in the range \-infinity..0, but this
is a kludge.)
.PP
Section or subsection selection will sometimes fail, since the DVI
file lists only the \ecount values that were active when the page
ended.
.PP
.I Dviselect
doesn't adjust the parameters in the postamble; however, since these
values are normally used only to size certain structures in the output
conversion programs, and the parameters never need to be adjusted upward,
this hasn't been a problem.
