.TH EDFN 1 1/12/79
.UC
.SH NAME
edfn \- edit full name of user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B edfn
name
string
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Edfn
is a command similar to
.IR chfn (1)
except that it is used to edit the gecos field of the password
file rather than just replace it.
.I Edfn
is a shell script which, after performing suitable manipulations,
passes its second argument to
.IR sed(1);
this argument specifies the editing commands to be performed on the
gecos field of the specified user.
Hence edfn can be used to fix phone numbers, offices, etc.
.PP
An example use of this command would be
.PP
.DT
	edfn earl "s/Earl/Earl T./"
.PP
which would add a middle initial after a first name.
Note that the string must, in general, be quoted to shield blanks
and special characters from the shell.  For regular
.IR ex(1)
users, be warned that the trailing slash in a
.IR sed(1)
substitute command (as in the example above) cannot be elided.
The field should consist of the user's name,
followed by their office number
followed by the last 4 digits of their office extension,
and finally their home phone number.  Any of these may be eliminated.
At UCB, offices can be given as ``508E'' for 508 Evans, and ``187MC'' for
187M Cory.
.PP
It is a good idea to run 
.IR finger (1)
on the user before and after
.I edfn
to make sure you have formatted the data correctly.
The command
.PP
.DT
	grep earl /etc/passwd
.PP
would allow user earl to examine the gecos field in his password file
entry; the gecos field is the fifth field displayed.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
finger(1), passwd(5), chsh(1), passwd(1),chfn(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Earl Cohen
.SH BUGS
The encoding of the office and extension information is installation dependent.
