.TH ET 1
.SH NAME
Et \- screen oriented editor for troll
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Et
database 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program starts up in
.B command mode
-- a line typed at the bottom of the screen is parsed and the
appropriate set of Troll commands will be executed. A carriage return 
puts Et in 
.B screen mode,
where text entered or edited on the screen becomes part of a Troll
.B tuple. 
A ':' character puts one back in command mode. 
The home directory of troll must be in users path variable.
.br
.B SCREEN MODE
.br
.B a
-- Add text starting after current cursor position.
.br
.B i
-- Add text starting at current cursor position.
.br
.B R
-- Add text starting at current cursor position, overwriting existing text.
.br
.B Escape
-- Escape from 'R', 'a', 's' or 'i' mode.
.br
.B rX
-- replace current letter with letter X.
.br
.B carriage return
-- Go to next line. If in 'a', 's' or 'i' mode and next line already
has text, escape the 'a', 'i', or 's' mode. If next line is blank,
continue inserting text.
.br
.B :
-- Enter command mode.
.br
.B x
-- Delete the character at the current cursor position.
.br
.B X
-- Delete from start of line to just before current cursor. 
.br
.B D
-- Delete from current cursor to end of line.
.br
.B s
-- substitute for current character by following text.
.br
.B [cntl] k
-- Move cursor to the end of previous attribute name.
.br
.B [cntl] h
-- Move cursor left.
.br
.B space bar
-- Move cursor right.
.br
.B [cntl] j
-- Move cursor to the end of next attribute name.
.br
.B [cntl] l
-- Move cursor right.
.br
.B ^
-- Move cursor to the start of current line.
.br
.B $
-- Move cursor to the end of current line.
.br
.B COMMAND MODE
.br
.B b[eautify]
-- Redraw the screen if messed up by write[1], etc.
.br
.B c[lear]
-- Clear the tuple values from the screen.
.br
.B d[elete]
name
-- Delete the tuple on the screen.
.br
.B g[et]
-- Retrieve tuple with key value(s) on screen for editing.
.br
.B h[elp]
-- Summarize commands.
.br
.B n[ext]
-- Retrieve "next" tuple (troll order) for editing.
.br
.B q[uit]
-- Back to the shell.
.br
.B r[el]
name
-- Change to a new relation & put attribute names on screen to enter data. 
.br
.B r[el]
-- Display current relation name
.br
.B s[end]
-- Send new or updated tuple data to Troll.
.br
.B !
-- Shell escape.
.br
.B >
-- Following text (up to newline) sent to Troll. Requires final ';'.
.br
.B t[roll]
-- Have dialogue with troll until a Cntrl-D.
.SH BUGS
1. Direct commands to Troll can cause assertion errors (killing the 
Troll process) or otherwise subvert the state Et thinks Troll is in.
A trailing ';' is necessary.  Probably should not be allowed for the
casual user.
.br
2. Input lines truncated at right edge of screen.
.br
3. Should have an "undo" command.
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Carl Resnikoff








