.TH F_FILES (DDBS)
.SH NAME
f_files         ddbs specification files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Each type of data files in the DDBS system has
an associated specification file which describes its 
contents.
Specification files may be given two part names separated by a
period.  The first part would indicate a connection to a relevant
data file; thus, a specification file used to create an inventory
list might use the word ``invent'' as the first part of its name.
The second part of the name is simply the letter ``s'', indicating
that the file is a specification file.  An inventory specification
file might, therefore, be named ``invent.s''.
.PP
Specification files are used whenever
a description of the data file to be manipulated is
necessary or in the creation of data files through the checkin
program.
The following hypothetical example illustrates the
connection between specification files and data files:

.nf
\fITypical Specification File\fR

xxxxxxxx
s s o i
dt:entry date	:20: 6:
nm:student name	:00:30:
ph:phone number	:00: 8:
end:e:0100000:0:

\fICorresponding Data File\fR

dt 761212
nm smith, j.p.
ph 642-0000
$
dt 740530
nm jones, m.j.
ph 642-1111
&
dt 720918
nm johnson, r.k.
ph
$
.fi
.PP
The first two lines are the same in all specification files.
A file which does not contain these lines will not
be accepted as a legal specification file by DDBS programs.
All of the subsequent lines correspond to the fields in
each entry in the associated type of data file.
Each specification file line is made up of four parts
separated by colons.
.PP
Part one is the field identifier key which precedes
each occurence of the field in all data files associated
with the specification file.  
.PP
Part two is a short description of the contents of the field.
This is used by the program checkin to prompt
the person entering data in a data file.
.PP
Part three is a data description code indicating, among other things,
the type of data allowed in the field.
00 indicates the data may be made up of all printing characters.
0200 in this field specifies that only dictionary matches
may be present in this field (checkin will check the file ``dict''
in the current directory unless directed elsewhere).
The program checkin uses this information to
check that correct data types have been entered in the files.
.PP
Part four specifies the maximum number of characters allowed
in the field.
Note in the example that a field may contain from 0 to the
maximum number of characters specified in part four of 
the specification file line.
.PP
The last line of the specification file always begins with
``end'' and corresponds to the '$' used to separate
entries in the data files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf

r_files         ddbs Raw data FILES
checkin         input/append to file and verify data
checkout        verify correctness of data file form
ddcodes         specification file Data Description codes
.SH NOTES

