.TH FOCUS 1
.SH NAME
Focus \- screen oriented editor and browser for Troll relations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B focus
[-w] [-c [+|-]] [-n]  database
.SH DESCRIPTION
Focus provides screen oriented data-entry and browsing facilities for Troll
databases. The parameter is the database directory
for the relations being edited. The -c option
is directly followed by + or -, indicating whether the autoclear 
option should be on (+) or off (-).
The option -w turns off the update facilities.
The option -n turns off the attribute alias facilities.
.PP
The screen editing facilities are similar to those of 'vi' and 'ex'
in visual mode. Focus performs input validation on all Troll built-in
domain types and subranges, and marks invalid attributes with a '#' symbol.
.PP
Besides data entry, Focus provides commands to browse through relations
either by retrieving single tuples (full key retrieval) or
sets of tuples by providing attribute values, attribute substrings,
sets of attribute values and ranges,
range constraints (partial match retrieval or "focus").
The results of selections may be saved in the database in a form 
suitable for either text processing or Troll data entry.
.LP
Each set retrieved with a focus command is termed
a partition. Browsing and selection is restricted to the current partition,
while further partial match retrievals may be made on a partition.
An attribute starting with a comparison operator (>, <, <=, >=, $, =, ~=)
results in a partial match retrieval. 
A set of values and value ranges are enclosed within square brackets "["
and "]".
(Set elements are separated by commas and the limits of a range are
separated by "..").
Troll expressions for retrieval may be enclosed in parentheses "(" and
")",
so that expressions and comparisons
can be made against other attributes of the same relation.
The special value 'null' can be used in all attributes and
indicates the Troll undefined value.
.sp
.LP
.B COMMAND LINE COMMANDS
.sp
\'!' 	Escape to UNIX shell.
.br
c+	Turn on autoclear mode for insertion and retrieval.
.br
c-	Turn off autoclear mode.
.br
\'?'	Identical to help.
.IP beautify
Redraw the screen (used when mail or messages have arrived).
.IP clear
Remove the attribute values from the current relation window.
.IP "copy \fIfile\fR"
Copy the contents of the relation or partition to file \fIfile\fR in the database
directory, using one line per tuple.
.IP "focus K"
Display the selection conditions for focus K, where 1 <= K <= current focus level.
.IP help
Present a summary of the Focus commands.
.IP "list \fIfile\fR"
Copy the contents of the relation or partition to file \fIfile\fR in the current
directory, using one line per attribute.
.IP quit
End of session, terminate and save log if requested.
.bp
.IP relation
Start editing or browsing a new relation, followed by
a relation name.
.IP "screen \fIfile\fR"
Store the current screen image, one line at a time in file \fIfile\fR in the
current directory.
.IP troll
Start a conversation with Troll. Terminated by <cntrl>d
(Warning: do not type 'quit' to Troll!)
.LP
All the commands (except copy) may be abbreviated to the first character.
Any additional information on a command line is ignored.
.sp
.B CURSOR MOVEMENTS
.sp
\'h'	Moves the cursor one position to the left.
.br
\'l'	Moves the cursor one position to the right.
.br
\'j'	Moves the cursor one position down.
.br
\'k' 	Moves the cursor one position up. 
.br
\'^'	Moves the cursor to start of the attribute.
.br
\'$'	Moves the cursor to end of the attribute.
.br
\'\ \'	Alias for cursor movement right.
.br
\'+'	Alias for 'j'; cursor movement down.
.br
\'-'	Alias for 'k'; cursor movement up.
.br
<cr>	Alias for cursor movement down and '^'.
.sp
.B SCREEN EDITING
.sp
\'a'	Start entering text after cursor position.
.br
\'i'	Start entering text before cursor position.
.br
\'r'	Replace current character with new one.
.br
\'s'	Replace the current character by new text.
.br
\'x'	Remove the character pointed at by the cursor.
.br
\'C'	Alias for 'D' followed by 'a'.
.br
\'D'	Delete the remainder of the attribute line from cursor.
.br
\'N'	Replace current integer value with max (attribute)+1.
.br
\'R'	Start overwriting text.
.br
\'X'	Destroy text from start of attribute to cursor.
.sp
.B UPDATE
.sp
\'d'	Delete the tuple referenced for update.
.br
\'u'	Undo the last deletion.
.br	
\'w'	Update the tuple referenced for update.
.sp
.B RETRIEVAL
.sp
\'g'	Get tuple with specified key (full tuple retrieval).
.br
\'n'	Get the next tuple in the current partition.
.br
\'p'	Get the previous tuple in the current partition.
.bp
.B FOCUS COMMANDS
.sp
\'f'	The focus command, used to retrieve a new partition.
.br
\'&'	Alias for 'f'.
.br
\'|'	Focus with attribute test disjunction (or).
.br
\'~'	Construct complement of current partition.
.br
\'q'	Drop the current partition.
.br
\'Q'	Drop all the partitions and return to relation level.
.sp
.B SCREEN MANIPULATION
.sp
\'b'	Beautify screen.
.br
\'c'	Clear the header, error markers, and attribute values.
.br
\'e'	Explain attribute properties and give example, using attributes relation.
.br	
\'F'	Advance to next page of attributes.
.br
\'B'	Return to previous page of attributes.
.br
\'t'	Show the type definitions of the attributes.
.br
\'?' 	Alias for help command.
.br
\'P'	Display the value of the tuple referenced for update.
.br
\'A'	Display the aggregate values (count, sum, min, max, avg, sdev).
.br
\':'	Go to command mode.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
"A Focus Tutorial" by A.I. Wasserman, M.L. Kersten and C. Resnikoff.
.br
troll (1), vi (1)
.SH BUGS
1. Direct commands to Troll can cause assertion errors (killing the 
Troll process) or otherwise subvert the state Focus thinks Troll is in.
A trailing ';' is required on each Troll command.
.br
2. Each attribute line is limited to 60 characters.
.br
3. Focus should have a more general "undo" command.
.br
.SH AUTHORS
Martin Kersten,
Anthony Wasserman,
Carl Resnikoff



