.TH GR2PS L "8/1/86"
.UC 4
.if t .ds PS P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.if n .ds PS PostScript
.if t .ds LW L\s-2ASER\s+2W\s-2RITER\s+2
.if n .ds LW LaserWriter
.if t .ds TX T\h'-2p'\v'3p'E\v'-3p'\h'-1p'X
.if n .ds TX TeX
.SH NAME
.PP
.I gr2ps
\- convert Gremlin files to \*(PS
.SH SYNOPSIS
gr2ps [ -c ] [ -s X Y ] [ -t X Y ] [ -o file ] [ file ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This program takes a picture description produced by Gremlin and
converts it to \*(PS source that can be printed on any printer that
supports this language, such as the Apple \*(LW.
.I Gr2ps
handles all the different types of elements in this gremlin output
and produces a good looking page on a \*(LW.
.PP
The command takes the name of a gremlin file (default is standard
input) and writes the resulting \*(PS file to its standard output,
unless the \-o option (see below) is given, in which case it
writes to the specified file.
.PP
Normally,
.I gr2ps
produces a file that can be sent directly to a \*(PS printer without
any further editing.
However, if the \-c option (see below) is given, it produces a file
that is intended to be imbedded into a larger \*(PS document.
Only the leading comment and the trailing
.B showpage
command are ommitted when \-c is specified, all the element descriptions
are the same.
This is meant to be used when a \*(PS file is being imbedded into a
document of another type (such as \*(TX, using \\special).
If this option is given, it is a good idea to bracket the resulting
file in the \*(PS
.B gsave
and
.B grestore
commands so that commands will not affect later portions of the
surrounding document.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-c
Omit leading and trailin context which would allow the resulting file
to be sent directly to the printer.
.IP \-s
Insert a \*(PS command into the output which would scale the image
according to the aruments given to this option.
There should be two floating point numbers which are aruments, the
scale factor in the X and Y dimensions.
A scale of 1.0 1.0 would mean no actual change; scaling may be
positive or negative.
.IP \-t
Insert a \*(PS commmand into the output which would translate (move)
the image by the given amount.
There should be two floating point numbers as aruments, the
translation amount in the X and Y directions.
A translation of 0.0 0.0 means no change; translations may be
positive or negative.
.IP \-o
Write output to a certain file rather than the standard output.
The \-o option must take as an argument the name of a file which
it can create.
.SH "SEE ALSO
.IR gremlin (L),
.IR grn (L),
.IR tex (L)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
John Coker,
University of California, Berkeley
john@renoir.Berkeley.EDU
.sp
Peehong Chen,
University of California, Berkeley
phc@renoir.Berkeley.EDU
.SH NOTES
.PP
\*(PS is a trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.
.br
Apple and \*(LW are trademarks of Apple Computers.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Because the Gremlin coordinate system is different from the
\*(PS one, the \-s and \-t options are almost always necessary to
get the output sized and placed properly.
