.EQ
.nr 99 \n(.s
.nr 98 \n(.f
.ps 10
.ft 2
.ps \n(99
.ft \n(98
.EN
.TH GVIEW 1G 4/11/81
.SH NAME
.PP
tv - preview image on alphanumeric terminal
.br
vpview - print image on Versatec plotter
.br
vaview - print image on Benson Varian plotter
.br
AEDview - display image on AED color graphics terminal
.br
wvfb - write virtual frame-buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBtv \fR[graphicsfile] [\fB-m \fRcolormap] [\fB-h \fRhsqueeze] [\fB-v \fRvsqueeze] [\fB-o \fRoffset] [\fB-c \fRcontrast] [\fB-b \fRbrightness] [\fB-i\fR]
.br
\fBvpview \fR[graphicsfile] [\fB-m \fRcolormap]
.br
\fBvaview \fR[graphicsfile] [\fB-m \fRcolormap]
.br
\fBAEDview \fRgraphicsfile [colormap]
.br
\fBcc \fRfile1.o file2.o ... \fB/usr/public/grlib
.br
wvfb\fR(file, bitmap, width, linelength, numlines);
.br
\fBchar \fR*file;
.br
\fBunsigned char \fRbitmap[][width];
.br
\fBint \fRwidth linelength, numlines;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Each of the routines vpview, \fRand \fBvaview \fRexpect \fIgraphicsfile
\fRas the first argument;  if missing, standard input will be assumed.
\fBTv \fRwill accept \fIgraphicsfile \fRin any position.
The file \fIgraphicsfile \fRin virtual frame-buffer format is printed on
the appropriate output device.  Each viewing program expects \fIgraphicsfile 
\fRto start with a \fBshort \fR(16-bit) integer
\fIlinelength \fRspecification (in pixels), followed by the
graphics data.  The maximum allowed line length is 512 pixels.
Each pixel is specified by an \fBunsigned char\fR; obviously
lines must consist of \fIlinelength \fR pixels or garbage will be displayed.
\fRThe order of pixels is from top to  bottom, left to right, as seen 
on the display medium.  
.PP
\fIColormap \fRis a file of the form
.br
.ti 10
\fBstruct \fRcolor {
.ti 14
\fBunsigned char \fRred, green, blue;
.ti 10
} RGB[256];
.br
where each entry of the array specifies the intensities of red, green, and
blue components of a color.  Zero implies the darkest shade (absence of color),
and 255 implies the lightest shade, (or total saturation of color).  To get 
pure black, our table entry would have red = green = blue = 0; white is 
produced by specifying red = green = blue = 255;  light purple might have
red = blue = 220, green = 0.
To index into the default color table, bits <7:5> of a pixel specify the red 
intensity, bits <4:2> specify green, and bits <1:0> specify blue.
.PP
For black and white images, red, green, and blue intensities are averaged, so
that a dark grey might have (red + green + blue)/3 = 20, and a very light grey 
might have (red + green + blue)/3 = 250.
.PP
It is suggested that no color tables be specified, unless other colors or
intensity corrections are specifically required.  If one specifies a
particular intensity in the graphics file as if there were no mapping at
all, the image should appear as intended.
.PP
\fBTv \fRpreviews images on an alphanumeric terminal, displaying 16 levels of 
brightness using standard characters.  A vertical swath up to 79 screen 
columns wide by as many rows as there are in the image are displayed.
\fIHsqueeze \fRmay range from 0 to 3 (default 0), and
.nr 99 \n(.s
.nr 98 \n(.f
.rm 11 
.as 11 "causes the displayed horizontal axis to be compressed by 
.ps 10
.ft 2
.ds 12 "\f12\fP
.ds 13 "\fIhsqueeze
.as 12 \v'-24u'\s-3\*(13\s+3\|\v'24u'
.ds 12 \x'0'\f2\s10\*(12\s\n(99\f\n(98
.as 11 \*(12
.ps \n(99
.ft \n(98
.as 11 ".
.ps \n(99
.ft \n(98
\*(11
Vsqueeze \fRmay range from 0 to 4 (default \fIhsqeeze \fR+ 1),
and similarly compresses the vertical axis.  Note that in the default case
that the vertical axis is compressed by a factor of 2 to correct for the
aspect ratio of alphanumeric terminals.  As averaging is done on pixels when
compression of either axis occurs, intermediate brightnesses may be displayed.
To defeat this both vertical and horizontal compression may be turned off by
specifying "\fB-h \fR0 \fB-v \fR0".  \fIOffset \fRranges between 0 and
\fIlinelength\fR (default 0), and specifies where in the line to start
displaying pixels.  This allows vertical strips of the image to be previewed
on the terminal.  \fIContrast \fRranges between +/- 10.0 (default 1.0) and
behaves as a contrast knob on a television set.  \fIBrightness \fRranges beween
-128 and 127 (default 0), and shifts the displayed brightness of each pixel 
linearly.  \fI-i \fRdefaults to off, and inverts the brightnesses of the 
image, so that a black-on-white display medium can be used for images.
The red, green, and blue values of the color map are averaged to come up with an
intensity to display.
.PP
\fBVpview \fRprints an image of \fIgraphicsfile \fRor standard input 
on the verstatec plotter,
using \fIcolormap \fRto correct grey levels, or a default correction if no map
is specified.  As with \fBtv\fR, \fIgraphicsfile \fRmust begin with a \fBshort
\fIlinelength \fRspecification.  Any lines over 440 pixels in length will be
right-clipped.
.PP
\fBVaview \fRprints an image of \fIgraphicsfile \fRor standard input 
on the varian plotter,
using \fIcolormap \fRto correct grey levels, or a default correction if no map
is specified.  As with \fBtv\fR, \fIgraphicsfile \fRmust begin with a \fBshort
\fIlinelength \fRspecification.  Any lines over 264 pixels in length will be
right-clipped.
.PP
\fBAEDview \fRdisplays an image of \fIgraphicsfile \fRon the AED color display,
using \fIcolormap \fRto map grey levels into colors, defaulting to a reasonable
mapping.  As with \fBtv\fR, \fIgraphicsfile \fRmust begin with a \fBshort
\fIlinelength \fRspecification.  Any lines over 512 pixels in length will be
right-clipped.
.PP
\fBWvfb \fRis archived in /usr/public/grlib in compiled, linkable form.  Calling
wvfb in a program results in the file specified to be opened, and \fInumlines 
\fRof length \fIlinelength \fRof the bitmap to be written to that file.  
\fIFile \fRis a string containing the name of the file to be opened 
(/usr/tmp/\fIlogin_name \fRrecommended); if a null string is passed, standard
output will be used. \fIBitmap \fRis the address of 
the array containing the image; the array should have been defined either as
an m by n \fBunsigned char \fRarray, or as a linear array;  vectors of pointers
to vectors will not work;  \fIwidth \fR is the width of the array (ie. 
a 512 by 512 array has width 512), \fIlinelength \fRis the number of pixels 
across the image (less than or equal to \fIwidth\fR), and \fInumlines \fRis 
the count of scanlines in the image.
This should relieve the user of any concern over correct file format;  while one
can always write to the file directly, bypassing wvfb, it is recommended that
this utility be used, in case of changes to the file format.
.SH FILES
.PP
/usr/public/vpview
.br
/usr/public/vaview
.br
/usr/public/AEDview
.br
/usr/public/tv
.br
/usr/public/colortb
.br
/usr/public/shorttb
.br
/usr/public/grlib
.SH BUGS
.PP
\fBAEDview \fRis faster, but still buggy.
.PP
There should be a corresponding Pascal version of \fBwvfb \fRavailable.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Mike Deering
.br
John Swensen
