.TH H19SYS LOCAL 23/3/81
.UC 4
.SH NAME
h19sys \- display system status on 25th line of an h19
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B h19sys
[
.B \-bcehlmpri
] [
.B \+N
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I H19sys
runs in the background and periodically displays system status information
on the 25th line of an h19 terminal.
If no flags are given,
.I H19sys
displays the time of day, the current load average, the change in load
average in the last 5 minutes, the number of users (followed by a `u'),
the number of runnable  process (followed by a `r')[VAX only], the number
of suspended processes (followed by a `s')[VAX only], 
and the users who have logged on and off since the last status report.
Finally, if new mail has arrived, a summary of it is printed.
If there is unread mail in your mailbox, an asterisk will appear after the
display of the number of users.
The display is normally in reverse video and is right justified to reduce
distraction.
Every fifth display is done in normal video to give the screen a chance
to rest.
.PP
If you have a file named .who in your home directory, then the contents
of that file is printed first.  One common use of this
feature is to alias chdir, pushd, and popd  to place the current directory 
stack in ~/.who after it changes the new directory.
.PP
The following flags may be given on the command line.
.TP
.B \-b
beep once every half hour and twice every hour, just like those obnoxious
watches you keep hearing.
.TP
.B \-c
Clear the 25th line for 5 seconds before each redisplay.
.TP
.B \-e
Print out only the information.  Do not print out the control commands
necessary to put the information on the bottom line.  This option is
useful for putting the output of h19sys onto the mode line of an emacs window.
.TP
.B \-h
print out the host machines name after the time [VAX only].
.TP
.B \-l
Don't print the names of people who log  in and out.
.TP
.B \-m
Don't check for mail. 
.TP
.B \-p
Don't report the number of process which are runnable and suspended.
.TP
.B \-r
Don't display in reverse video.
.TP
.B \+N
Update the status line every N seconds. The default is 60 seconds.
.TP
.B \-i
Print out the process id of the h19sys process onto standard output
upon startup.  With this information you can send the alarm signal
to the h19sys process to cause it to update immediately.
H19sys writes to the standard error, so you can redirect the standard
output into a file to catch the process id.
.PP
If you have a file .h19lock in your home directory, then h19sys will
not update its statistics and write on your screen, it will just go to
sleep for a minute.  This is useful if you want to momentarily diable
h19sys.  Note that it may take a few seconds from the time the lock file
is created until you are guaranteed that h19sys will not write on the
screen.
.SH FILES
.ta 2.4i
.nf
/etc/utmp	names of people who are logged in
/dev/kmem	contains process table [VAX only]
${HOME}/.who	information to print on bottom line
${HOME}/.h19lock	when it exists, h19sys will not print
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
John Foderaro
.SH BUGS
If you interrupt the display then you may find your cursor missing or 
stuck  on the 25th line.  The best thing to do is reset the terminal.
.br
If there is too much for one line, the excess is thrown away.
.SH SEE ALSO
h19_status(PUBLIC)
