.TH IBMTEX L
.SH NAME
.I ibmtex, ibmlatex
\- run TeX (LaTeX) on the IBM 3081
.UC 4
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
  ibmtex [ \-F \fBfile\fP ] [ \-o \fBfile\fP ] [ \-p \fBnumber\fP ] \fBfilename\fP
ibmlatex [ \-F \fBfile\fP ] [ \-o \fBfile\fP ] [ \-p \fBnumber\fP ] \fBfilename\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Ibmtex
will run your TeX (LaTeX) jobs on the IBM 3081 machine,
attempting to make the process as transparent as possible.
The program takes a single filename as it's argument (prompting
if not given one on the command line) and processes it to remove
\\input filename references (by substituting the contents of the
apropriate file for the \\input filename control sequence using
the
.I inelim
program), then lines longer than 79 characters are split and
non-ascii characters are removed using
.I texprep,
then the file is sent off to the IBM 3081 to run TeX (or LaTeX).
.PP
The job is actually run by the RJE (remote job entry) facility and
so you must have a
.B .rje.ibmtex
file in your home directory that specifies
your account and password on the IBM
(you must have access to an account on the IBM to use
.I ibmtex).
.PP
If the \-p (multiple pass) option is given, TeX (or LaTeX) will
be run that many times in the same job, although only a single
.B dvi
and
.B log
file will be returned.
This is designed to be used to resolve complicated references 
introduced by processors such as
.IR bibtex(1) .
Running TeX (LaTeX) twice in the same session allows the second
run to use auxiliary files produced by the first run.
.PP
.I Ibmtex
returns a transcript of the IBM session in the file ibmtex.out
(ibmlatex.out) which is full of CMS mumbo-jumbo, and is only useful
to people who speak CMS, however, if your job does not produce even a
.B log
file it may provide clues to the problem.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
.B \-F
The \-F option works like it does for
.IR rje(1)
in that it changes the rje file used.
The filename may either be concatenated to the \-F option or be a
separate argument.
If concatenated, it means that the filename is to be suffixed to
the standard ``~/.rje'' name, otherwise, the whole file name is
expected.
.TP 6
.B \-o
The \-o option specifies the session log (the default is ``ibmtex.out'')
which contains a transcript of the IBATCH session.
.TP 6
.B \-p
The \-p option specifies that TeX should be run more than once, it
will be run as many times as specified by the argument.
The argument may be concatenated to the option or be a separate argument.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR tex(l) ,
.IR latex(l) ,
.IR inelim(l) ,
.IR texprep(l) ,
.IR bibtex(l) ,
.IR rje(l)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
John Coker
University of California, Berkeley
(john@renoir.berkeley.edu, ucbvax!john)
.SH BUGS
.PP
The jobs are run in \\batchmode (non-interactively) so you cannot
correct errors with the normal TeX interactive mechanisms.
If errors are found, they will be written in the 
.B log
file returned
by the program.
.PP
.I Ibmtex
uses
.IR inelim(l)
to locally include all files referred to in your document with
\\input filename so that all files are input on the original host.
If you want to \\input a file on the IBM, you have to use another
control sequence.
.PP
Currently some kludges are necessary to make the system work.  The
shell script will prompt for your UNIX passwd so that it can ftp the
output files from the IBM back to the original host
(using an experimental version of ftp).
This will go away once CF&C implements image (binary)
mode in the current UNIX/CMS ftp.
.PP
The program expects a special .rje file to exist in your home
directory, called .rje.ibmtex.
Currently this is because a special IBATCH job class must be used,
eventually this may go away also.
.PP
The multiple passes (when the \-p option is given) will be run even
if the first pass fails, returning the
.B log
file from the last pass.
