.TH INELIM L
.UC 4
.SH NAME
.PP
.I inelim
\- resolve references to other files in a TeX document
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
inelim [ \-clq ] [ \-p \fBpath\fP ] [ \-i \fBname\fP ] [ \-n \fBname\fP ] [ \-o \fBname\fP ] [ \fBfilename\fP ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Inelim
takes a list of TeX source files (standard input default) and replaces
all control sequences of the form ``\\input filename'', that are
not in TeX comments, with the contents of the file which is the
argument to the \\input control sequence.
This allows one to easily resolve all references to external files
when, for example, the file is to be transferred to another machine.
.PP
The files given on the command line are processed in order and the
concatenation of the result of all the processing is sent to the
standard output of the program.  If no files are specified, the
standard input is read for a file; if the special argument, ``\-'',
is given, the standard input is read at that point.
.PP
The program also has the capability to interpret the \\include and
\\includeonly macros of LaTeX (see the \-l option below).
If this procesing is turned on, files specified in an \\includeonly
control sequence will replace the \\include control sequence that
calls for that file, if there is one.
If an \\include control sequence appears for a file that has not
been specified by the \\includeonly sequence, that file is \fBnot\fP
included.
If no \\includeonly control sequence is present, all the \\include
references are replaced by the files they call for.
The \\includonly and any \\include control sequences are deleted
from the output, whether replaced by the files they refer to or not.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
.B \-c
The \-c option
causes the \\input statements inside comments to be searched also,
that is, comments are not exempted from expansion.
.TP 6
.B \-l
The \-l option
causes the program to interpret \\include and \\includeonly in the
manner described above.
If the \-n or \-o options are used, this flag is automatically turned on.
.TP 6
.B \-q
The \-q option
causes missing file errors to be ignored, I.e.,
if an \\input statement in the current file cannot be resolved,
.I inelim
continues working on that same file, deleting the offending
control sequence, although still printing the error message.
Normally, if an \\input file is not found, all work on that file
(and its parent tree) is abandoned.
.TP 6
.B \-i
The \-i option
causes the standard input macro name to be
.I argument.
An alphabetic argument to this option is required, which specifies the
name of the macro used for including other files instead of the
default ``input''.
.TP 6
.B \-n
The \-n option
causes the LaTeX include macro name to be
.I argument.
An alphabetic argument to this option is required, which specifies the
name of the macro used for including other files instead of the
default ``include''.
.TP 6
.B \-o
The \-o option
causes the LaTeX includeonly macro name to be
.I argument.
An alphabetic argument to this option is required, which specifies the
macro whose argument is a list of file names that may be included
by \\include, instead of the default ``includeonly''.
.TP 6
.B \-p
The \-p option
causes the path to be searched for the files to be
.I argument.
A colon-separated list of UNIX pathnames is required as the argument to
this option, which specifies the input path to search instead of the
value of your TEXINPUTS environment variable (or the default
``.:/usr/local/lib/tex82'' if no such variable exists).
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
John Coker
University of California, Berkeley
(john@renoir.berkeley.edu, ucbvax!john)
.SH BUGS
Inelim suffers from the same ``bug'' (call it feature) that TeX does;
it forces the filename to end in ``.tex'' which means that any filename
you want to \\input
.B must
end in ``.tex'' (although the ``.tex'' suffix need not be specified)
or some such suffix.
.PP
The filename arguments for the \\include and \\includeonly macros
should not have the .tex suffix.
This is an error for LaTeX and, if one macro calls the file ``foo''
and another macro calls it ``foo.tex'',
.I inelim
will not find it bacause of the name difference.
.PP
Input statements inside comments are not expanded and not removed,
they stay just that way in the output.
If \\input statements are being expanded in a comment, you will
almost surely introduce TeX errors because the first newline in the
\\input file will end the comment, and the rest of the file will
not be commented.
