.TH INEWS 1
.SH NAME
inews \- submit news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B inews
[
.B \-u
filename ]
.B \-t
title
[
.B \-n
newsgroups ]
[
.B \-e
expiration date ]
[
.B \-q
]
[
.B \-f
sender]
.PP
.B inews
.B \-p
[
filename ]
.PP
.B inews
.B \-c
filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Inews
submits news articles to the USENET news
network.  The first form is for submitting user articles.  If the
.B -u
flag is given along with a 
.I filename,
the body will be read from
the specified file; otherwise, the body will be read from the standard
input.  A 
.I title 
must be specified as there is no default.  Each article
belongs to a list of newsgroups.  If the 
.B -n 
flag is omitted, the list
will default to something like "general".  If you wish to submit
an article in multiple newsgroups, the
.I newsgroups
must be seperated by commas and/or spaces.
If not specified, the expiration date will be
set to the local default.
The
.B -q
flag supresses the question that is asked when the user attempts
to submit to a new
newsgroup.  The
.B -f
flag specifies the article's sender.  Without this flag, the sender
defaults to the user's name.
.LP
The second form is used for receiving articles from other machines.
If
.I filename
is given, the article will be read from the specified file; Otherwise
the article will be read from the standard input.  An expiration date
need not be present and a receival date, if present, will be ignored.
.LP
After local installation, inews will transmit the article to all systems
that subscribe to the newsgroups that the article belongs to.
.LP
The third form is used mainly by
.I readnews(1)
for canceling articles.  The
.I filename
given is the physical filename on the system.  The article first be
linked into the canceled article directory if it exists and will then
be unlinked.  An article may only be canceled by the author, super-user,
or news user.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
/usr/spool/news/.sys.nnn
temporary articles
.TP 25
.RI /usr/spool/news/ newsgroups / article_no.
Articles
.TP 25
/usr/spool/news/.canned
Canceled articles
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/ngfile
List of legal newsgroups
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/seq
Sequence number of last article
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/history
List of all articles ever seen
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/sys
System subscription list
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1),
readnews(1),
uucp(1),
getdate(3),
msgs(1),
recnews(1),
sendnews(1),
uurec(1),
news(5),
newsrc(5)
.SH AUTHORS
Matt Glickman
.br
Mark Horton
.br
Stephen Daniel
.br
Tom R. Truscott
