.TH LSTREE 1 7/23/79 1
.UC
.SH NAME
lstree \- pretty print listing of entire directory tree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lstree
[
.B \-ltasrnifgqMLoSTOW
] directory name ....
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lstree
is similar to
.IR ls (1)
and
.IR ls (UCB)
but
.IR lstree
lists the entire contents of the directory tree rooted
in that directory in a pleasing, tree style format.
The format chosen determines if the tree is to be printed,
or if just an outline form is to be printed.
The later is prefered if the width of the directory listing
is very large.
Almost all of the aplicable options in
.IR ls(1)
and
.IR ls (UCB)
are available.  In addition, one can specify that only part
of the information normally associated with the
.IR ls (1)
.RB ( \-l )
flag be printed, instead of being swamped with information
not really desired.
.PP
New options are:
.TP 4
.B  \-M
print the file's mode
.TP 4
.B  \-L
print the number of links
.TP 4
.B  \-o
print the file's owner
.TP 4
.B  \-S
print the file's byte size,
in contrast to the 
.RB ( \-s )
flag that prints the block size
.TP 4
.B  \-T
print the file's last modification date and time
.TP 4
.B  \-O
print out the tree in outline format
.TP 4
.B  \-W
print out any directories without execute (search) permission
.PP
.br
.sp
.br
These options from
.I ls (1)
are not available:
.B "\-d, \-u"
.sp 2
These options from
.I ls (UCB)
are not available:
.B "\-m, \-1, \-c, \-x"
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd to get the user ID's for the 
.RB ( \-l )
and 
.RB ( \-o )
options.
/etc/passwd to get the group ID's for the
.RB \' \-g \'
option.
.SH SEE ALSO
ls(1), ls(UCB), l(UCB)
.SH BUGS
May not handle special files correctly.
.br
Does not handle empty directories and subdirectories correctly.
.br
Files with non printing characters will mess up the box's format.
Use the 
.RB ( \-q )
option to remedy this.
.br
The trees should probably be fitted together on the page to increase
the density of the print out, but that is hard to do.
