.TH MDC l "7 July 1985"
.UC 4
.ad
.SH NAME
mdc \- maitrd control program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/local/mdc
[ command [ argument ... ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mdc
is used by the system administrator to control the
operation of the maitrd load balancing software.
For any machine running the maitrd client daemon,
.I mdc
may be used to:
.IP \(bu
set the dynamic load threshold at which jobs are exported,
.IP \(bu
force the daemon to reread the configuration file, oestarting
all active connections, and attempting to reestablish dormant ones,
.IP \(bu
display the current status of the maitrd daemon,
.IP \(bu
kill the daemon without restrating it.
.PP
Without any arguments,
.I mdc
will prompt for commands from the standard input.
If arguments are supplied,
.IR mdc
interprets the first argument as a command and the remaining
arguments as parameters to the command.  The standard input
may be redirected causing
.I mdc
to read commands from file.  
.pp
Commands to 
.I mdc
may be sent to any machine running the maitrd software.
If no machine is given explicitly on the command line,
.I mdc
directs the command to the last referenced machine.
If no machine has yet been referenced, then the
local host is assumed.  Any number of hosts may
be given on a command line.  
.I Mdc
will send the command to each host.
Commands may be abreviated;
the following is the list of recognized commands.
.TP
? [ command ... ]
.TP
help [ command ... ]
.br
Print a short description of each command specified in the argument list,
or, if no arguments are given, a list of the recognized commands.
.TP
kill { (host)* }
.br
Terminate the active maitrd daemon at the host (or hosts) immediately.
This command is restricted to the superuser.
.TP
load # { (host)* }
.br
Set the load threshold to the second argument at each of the
indicated (or implied) hosts.
This command is restricted to the superuser.
.TP
exit
.TP
quit
.br
Exit from mdc.
.TP
restart { (host)* }
.br
This will cause the maitrd daemon at the indicated hosts to reread
the configuration file, close all existing connections 
and attempt to reestablish
connections with each host given in the configuration file.  All
in-core statistics are zeroed.   Jobs in the middle of processing
are unaffected and will continue normally.
.TP
status { (host)* }
.br
This displays the status of the maitrd daemon at each indicated
host.  This is an unrestricted command.
.TP
machine { host }
.br
This sets the default host to its argument.  With no arguments,
it returns the current default host.  
.SH FILES
.nf
/usr/local/maitrd.conf	maitrd configuration file
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
maitrd(l), garcon(l), Rpi(l), Rcc(l)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.nf
.ta \w'?Ambiguous command      'u
?Ambiguous command	abreviation matches more than one command
?Invalid command	no match was found
?Privileged command	command can be executed by root only
.fi
.SH BUGS
The 'machine' command is probably silly.
