.TH MM 1
.SH NAME
mm \- print out documents formatted with the \s-1PWB/MM\s+1 macros
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mm
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mm\^
can be used to type out documents using
.IR nroff (1)
and the
.SM PWB/MM
text formatting codes.
It has options to specify
preprocessing by
.IR tbl (1)
and/or
.IR neqn (1)
and postprocessing by various terminal-oriented output filters.
The proper pipelines and the
required arguments and flags for
.IR nroff (1)
and
.SM PWB/MM
are generated, depending on the options selected.
.PP
.I Options\^
for
.I mm\^
are given below.
Any other arguments or flags (e.g.,
.BR \-rC3 )
are passed
to
.IR nroff (1)
or to
.SM PWB/MM,
as appropriate.
Such options can occur in any order,
but they must appear before the
.I files\^
arguments.
If no arguments are given,
.I mm\^
prints a list of its options.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 9
.BI \-T term
Specifies the type of output terminal; recognized
values for
.I term\^
are (see
.IR term (7)):
.BR 300 ,
.BR 300s ,
.BR 450 ,
.BR 300-12 ,
.BR 300s-12 ,
.BR 450-12 ,
.BR 37 ,
.BR 4014 ,
.BR hp ,
.BR 1520 ,
.BR 745 ,
.BR 43 ,
.BR tn300 ,
and
.BR lp .
If this option is
.I not\^
used,
.I mm\^
will use the value of the shell variable
.SM
.B $TERM
from the environment (see
.IR profile (5)
and
.IR environ (7))
as the value of
.IR term ,
if
.SM
.B $TERM
is set;
otherwise,
.I mm\^
will use
.B 300
as the value of
.IR term .
If several terminal types are specified,
the last one takes precedence.
.TP
.B \-12
Indicates that the document is to be produced in 12-pitch.
May be used when
.SM
.B $TERM
is set to one of
.BR 300 ,
.BR 300s ,
and
.BR 450 .
(The pitch switch on the DASI 300 and 300s terminals must be manually
switched to
.B 12
if this option is used.)
.TP
.B \-c
Causes
.I mm\^
to invoke
.IR col (1);
note that if
.I term\^
is one of
.BR hp ,
.BR 1520 ,
.BR 745 ,
.BR 43 ,
.BR tn300 ,
and
.BR lp ,
then
.IR col (1)
is automatically invoked by
.IR mm .
.TP
.B \-e
Causes
.I mm\^
to invoke
.IR neqn (1).
.TP
.B \-t
Causes
.I mm\^
to invoke
.IR tbl (1).
.TP
.B \-E
Invokes the
.B \-e
option of
.IR nroff (1).
.TP
.B \-u
Causes
.I mm\^
to use the non-compacted version of the macros (see
.IR mm (7)).
.PD
.PP
As an example (assuming that the shell variable
.SM
.B $TERM
is set in the environment to
.BR 450 ),
the two command lines below are equivalent:
.RS
.PP
mm \|\-t \|\-rC3 \|\-12 \|ghh\(**
.br
tbl \|ghh\(** \|\(bv \|nroff \|\-cm \|\-T450\-12 \|\-h \|\-rW80 \|\-rO3 \|\-rC3
.RE
.PP
.I Mm\^
reads the standard input
when
.B \-
is specified
instead of any file names.
(Mentioning other files together with
.B \-
leads to disaster.)\ 
This option allows
.I mm\^
to be used as a filter,
.if t e.g.,\p
.if n e.g.,
``cat \|spl \|\(bv \|mm \|\-''.
.SH HINTS
.PD 0
.TP
1.
For some terminals,
.I mm\^
invokes
.IR nroff (1)
with the
.B \-h
flag.
With this flag,
.IR nroff (1)
assumes that the terminal has tabs set
every 8 character positions.
.TP
2.
Use the
.BI \-o list\^
option of
.IR nroff (1)
to specify ranges of pages to be output.
.TP
3.
If you use the
.B \-s
option of
.IR nroff (1)
(to stop between pages of output),
use line-feed (rather than return or new-line)
to restart the output.
.TP
4.
If you lie to
.I mm\^
about the kind of terminal its output will be printed on,
you'll get (often subtle) garbage.
.TP
5.
If you are redirecting output into a file, you must specify the
.B \-T37
option, and then use the appropriate terminal filter when you actually print that file.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.tr ~
.PD 0
col(1), env(1), eqn(1), greek(1), mmt(1), nroff(1), tbl(1),
profile(5), mm(7), term(7).
.PP
.I "\s-1PWB/MM\s+1 \- Programmer's Workbench Memorandum Macros\^"
by D.~W. Smith and J.~R. Mashey.
.PP
.I "Typing Documents with \s-1PWB/MM\s+1\|"
by D.~W. Smith and E.~M. Piskorik.
.PD
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.tr ~~
``mm: \|no input file''\| if
none of the arguments is a readable file and
.I mm\^
is not used as a filter.
