.TH MON 8 "26 April 1981"
.de s1
.if n .sp
.if t .sp .1i
..
.de t1
.if n .ta 5n
.if t .ta 1i
..
.UC 4
.SH NAME
mon \- display system activity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mon
[ interval ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mon
provides a screen oriented display of system activity.
It updates the display every second unless
.I interval
is specified, then successive updates occur every
.I interval
seconds.
.PP
The format fields are:
.PP
Top Line: host name, load averages for 5 seconds, 1, 5, and 15 minutes,
date, and number of users.
.PP
Procs: information about numbers of processes in various states.
.s1
.t1
.nf
r       on run queue (does not include the running job, i.e. mon)
d       waiting for "disk" i/o (sleeping with priority < PZERO)
p       page wait
s       runnable or short sleeper (< 20 secs) but swapped
sl      sleeping in core.
.fi
.s1
Forks: Number of forks and vforks during the interval.
.s1
.t1
Mem: information about the usage of virtual and real memory.
Virtual pages are considered active if they belong to processes which
are running or have run in the last 20 seconds.
A ``page'' here is 1024 bytes.
.s1
.t1
.nf
real    total real pages used
ract    active real pages
virt    total virtual pages used
vact    active virtual pages
free    size of the free list
.fi
.s1
Cpu: trap/interrupt rate averages per second
.s1
.t1
.nf
ints    (non clock) device interrupts per second
scall   system calls per second
csw     cpu context switch rate (switches/sec)
.fi
.s1
Time: breakdown of percentage usage of CPU time
.s1
.nf
user    user time for normal and low priority processes
nice    running "nice" jobs
sys     system time
idle    cpu idle
.fi
.s1
Paging: information about page faults and paging activity.
These are averaged each second, and given in units per second.
.s1
.t1
.nf
re      page reclaims (simulating reference bits)
at      pages attached (found in free list rather than swapdev
        or filsys)
pin     pages paged in
pout    pages paged out
oprs    calls to paging routine
fr      pages freed by daemon per second
def     anticipated short term memory shortfall
sr      pages scanned by clock algorithm, per-second
nxf     number of executable filled on demand (exfod) pages
        created
xf      number of exfod's filled
nzf     number of zero filled on demand (zfod) pages created
zf      number of zfod's filled
nrf     number of fill on demand pages mapped by vread (vrfod)
        created
rf      number of vrfod's filled
prf     pages reclaimed from free list
swi     number of swapin operations
swo     number of swapout operations
.fi
.s1
Chars: Number of chars from and to terminals during the interval.
.fi
.s1
Network Interfaces: The name of the interface is given along with the
number of packets sent and received during the interval, the number of
input and output errors, collisions (for ethernet type networks), and
the output queue length.
.fi
.s1
Disks: For each "alive" disk monitored.
.s1
.t1
.nf
Kbps    average Kbyte per second transfer rate during interval
tps     transfers per second
msps    average milliseconds per seek during the interval
.nf
.s1
Commands:
   ^L   repaints the screen.
    s   screen dumps into a file "mon.dump"
    l   dumps the screen to the line printer.
    q   exits the program.
    Any other character will cause the screen to be updated (thus
        you can for example run "mon 100" and type single characters
        to take "snapshots" of the system).
.s1
.SH FILES
/dev/kmem, /vmunix
.SH SEE ALSO
The sections starting with ``Interpreting system activity'' in
.IR "Installing and Operating 4.2bsd" .
.SH AUTHOR
Phillip Dykstra
