.TH NETNEWS 1 duke
.SH NAME
netnews \- send or receive news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ll +5
.B netnews
[
.B \-a
[
date ]]
[
.B \-n
newsgroups ]
[
.B \-t
titles ]
[
.B \-lpr
]
[
.B \-c
[
"mailer" ]]
.PP
.ll -5
.B netnews
.B \-s
[
newsgroups ]
.PP
.B netnews
.B -i
title
[
.B \-n
newsgroups ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Netnews
without argument prints recent articles.
For each article
a command is read from the standard input.
.TP 10
y or \en
Continue normally
.TP 10
n or d
Go to next article.
.TP 10
p
Print article again.
.TP 10
-
Go back to previous article.
.TP 10
c
Cancel (restricted to contributor and superuser).
.TP
.RI "w " file
Append a copy of the article to the named
.I file.
.TP
r
Reply to author (via mail).
.TP
q
Exit.
.TP
x
Exit without update.
.PP
If the
.B \-p
option is specified,
then the
news
is printed, no questions asked.
If the
.B \-r
option is specified, then the
news
is printed in reverse time order.
Normally, each selected article is printed in full.
The
.B \-l
option requests
.I netnews
to print titles only.
The
.B \-c
option requests an interface like that of
.IR msgs (1)
rather than the default interface of
.IR /bin/mail (1).
If the optional
.I mailer
is included, all news is placed into a temporary file,
and the given mailer is invoked on it.
The string ``mailer'' should consist of the command line
and arguments, using % to substitute for the name of the temporary file.
.PP
There are three criteria used to select an article to print:
.TP
1.
Normally, the article time must be more recent
than the user's last request for news.
The
.B \-a
option requests instead that the article time
be more recent than the specified
.I date.
A missing
.I date
is taken to be the beginning of time.
.TP
2.
Normally, the article must be in one of the user's newsgroups.
The
.B \-n
option requests instead that the article
be in one of the specified
.I newsgroups.
.TP
3.
Normally, the article title is not considered.
The
.B \-t
option requests that the article title
contain
one of the strings specifed by
.I titles.
.PP
.I Netnews
.B \-s
is used to print
the current list of newsgroups to which
the user subscribes,
or, if
.I newsgroups
are given,
to specify a new subscription list.
Subscribing to the newsgroup "ALL"
allows reception of all articles.
Subscribing to "NET.ALL"
allows reception of all network articles.
All users subscribe to the newsgroup "general".
It is possible to specify newsgroups you do not wish
to subscribe to by preceding the newgroup name with !.
.PP
.I Netnews
.B \-i
inserts an article
(read from standard input)
with title
.I title.
Normally,
the article is submitted to newsgroup "general".
The
.B \-n
option specifies an alternate list.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 25
netnews
Read recent news of interest using /bin/mail-like interface.
.TP 25
netnews -c
Read news using msgs-like interface.
.TP 25
netnews -c "Mail -f %"
Read news using Mail as an interface.
.TP 25
netnews -a last tues -n ALL
Read all news since Tuesday.
.TP 25
netnews -alr
Print titles of all news articles of interest,
most recent first.
.TP 25
netnews -i C_bug -n NET.v7bugs
Submit a bug report to the network.
.TP 25
netnews -s ALL !NET.ALL
Subscribe to all local articles,
and no NET articles
(obscure feature).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
/usr/spool/news/sys.nnn
news articles
.TP 25
/usr/spool/news/.bitfile
bit map of users with news
.TP 25
/usr/spool/news/.ngfile
list of newsgroups to which it is
legal to subscribe or submit news
.TP 25
/usr/spool/news/.uindex
index of news users
.TP 25
/usr/spool/news/.nindex
index of news articles
.TP 25
/usr/spool/news/.seq
sequence number of last article
.TP 25
/usr/spool/news/.history
list of all articles ever seen
.TP 25
/usr/spool/news/.sys
system subscription list
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1),
uucp(1),
getdate(3),
nchk(1),
msgs(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Stephen Daniel (duke!swd)
.br
Tom R. Truscott (duke!trt)
.br
Department of Computer Science
.br
Duke University
.br
Durham, North Carolina
