.TH NEWCAL 1 "3/16/85"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
.PP
.I newcal
\- -super cool calendar program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
newcal [ -a ] [ month-name ] [ year ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Newcal
is an improvement of the standard calendar program
.IR cal(1) ,
which has full size calendars for each month with animated pictures.
The program also includes the old calendar printing program (which
could only print out the whole year in small calendars).
If
.I newcal
is run with none or two arguments (the month and the year), the new
version of the calendar, of the given month for the given year,
is used.
If one argument is given, the argument is examined to see if it
contains numeric characters.
If it does, the old version calendar is printed,
showing small calendars for the entire given year,
otherwise, the new, single-month version is printed.
.PP
If the long version is used (single month printed), the user's
home .calendar file will be read for special days and messages
(red letter days).
Also, a small picture will be animated above the month calendar,
to keep things interesting.
.PP
If the program's standard output is not a terminal, the calendar and
basic picture are written to the standard output, without any animation
or user interaction.
.SH OPTION
.IP \fI-a\fP
The -a option forces the interactive mode even when the standard output
is not a terminal.
.SH RC FILE
.PP
If the file
.B .calendar
exists in the user's home directory, it is read for special days to
be placed into the calendar when the month is printed in long (single month)
format.
If this file is not readable or non-existent, the file /usr/public/lib/.calendar
is read for the system default holidays and red letter days.
.PP
The format of the calendar files is as follows:
.nf

month-name day-of-month [ year-number [ options ] ]
top (first) line of message
bottom (second) line of message
.fi
.PP
These three lines can be repeated as many times as desired, one for
each day that there is some special message for.
All three lines must exist, but the two message lines may be blank,
in which case no message is printed.
.PP
The only option currently understood is the
.I I
flag, which makes the day of the month (the number) appear in inverse
video when the month is printed.
More options may be implemented later.
.PP
The month names should be alphabetic, and may be be any reasonable
and unique abbreviation of the month name.
For example, ``ja'', ``Jan'', and ``januar'' are all legitimate abbreviations
for the month ``January'', but ``j'' or ``Jan.'' are not (must be unique
and cannot have characters that are not in the full month name).
.SH FILES
.nf
~/.calendar
/usr/public/lib/calendar/*
.fi
.PP
If the animation files in /usr/public/lib/calendar are not readable,
just the calendar is printed with no pretty header.
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Kara Kapczynski (kara@renoir) and John Coker (jcoker@renoir)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Does not yet do the right thing when stdout is not a terminal.
