.TH PSSUN 1 "17 Mar 1985" "Adobe Systems, Inc."
.ds PS P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.SH NAME
pssun \- convert a Sun raster-format file to a \*(PS file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pssun
[ 
.I options
] [
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I pssun
reads in a Sun raster-format file and converts it to \*(PS format on
the standard output.  If no
.I file
is specified, the standard input is used.
The resulting \*(PS file may be spooled for printing 
on a \*(PS printer or output to a named file.
.sp
The possible options are:
.TP
.BI \-p " file"
Causes the \*(PS file to be written to the named file rather than
the standard output.
.TP
.BI \-l " left bottom"
Specifies the location on the printed page of the bottom, left corner of the 
converted raster image.  The default is .25 inch for both left and bottom, 
to avoid clipping by the device.
.I Left
and
.I bottom
are the distances, in inches, from the bottom, left corner of the printed 
page to the bottom, left corner of the image.
.TP
.B \-2
Specifies that the image should be doubled in x and y \- each pixel in 
the source becoming 4 on the page.  This results in a good-sized output
image.  (Note that this is accomplished by using a 
.B scale
operation in the \*(PS file, not by doubling the volume of raster
data in the file.)
.TP
.BI \-s " width height"
Specifies the size of the converted raster image on the printed page.
.I Width
and 
.I height
are the dimensions, in inches, of the resulting image on the printed page.
.TP
.BI \-S " width"
Allows you to scale the image without distorting its shape.  
.I Width
specifies the width, in inches, of the resulting image on the printed page.
The height of the image is computed to maintain the same ratio of height
to width on the output image as on the input raster-format file.
.TP
.BI \-r
Rotates the image 90 degrees, placing the origin in the lower right corner of
the standard portrait page.
.TP
.B \-n
Omits the inclusion of a showpage operator at the end of the 
\*(PS file.  This option may be useful in the situation where the resultant
\*(PS file represents only a portion of a printed page.  This output file can
then be merged with other \*(PS files to create a complete page.
.SH FILES
.TP 2.2i
LIBDIR/pssun.pro
prologue file
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lpr(1), lpq(1), lprm(1), screendump(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Should be self explanatory.
.SH AUTHOR
Adobe Systems, Inc.
.SH NOTES
\*(PS is a trademark of Adobe Systems, Incorporated.
