.TH R2BIB 1-local
.SH NAME
r2bib \- convert refer input files to bibtex .bib files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B r2bib
file ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B r2bib
reads the
.I files
and produces a
.B bibtex
reference list (a .bib file) on the standard output.
If no files are given, r2bib reads
standard input.
.PP
Since
.B refer
files are inherently unstructured (compared to
.B bibtex )
.B r2bib
only does a passable job.  In particular
.B refer
doesn't require a keyword, while
.B bibtex
does.  The heuristic that
.B r2bib
uses for cooking up a keyword, in order of precedence, is:
.PP
1. Use the keyword entry (%K) if it's only one word.
.PP
2. Use the label entry (%L) if it's only one word.
.PP
3. Otherwise just use the string "keyN" where N
is the count of this bibliographic entry in
the refer file(s).
.PP
To determine the type of reference that the
.B refer
entry is,
.B r2bib
has to do some ``calculated guessing''.  The heuristic used
here (again, in order of precedence) is:
.PP
1. If it has a journal entry (%J) then it's considered to
be an @ARTICLE.
.PP
2. If it has a report entry (%R) then it's considered to
be a @TECHREPORT.
.PP
3. If it has a issuer entry (%I) then it's considered to
be a @BOOK.
.PP
4. Otherwise it's considered to be a @MISC.
.PP
Quite often
.B r2bib
will misguess and you will need to edit (by hand) the resulting .bib
file.
.PP
Any fields that
.B r2bib
doesn't know about it will ignore (and complain about on stderr).
.SH AUTHOR
Rusty Wright, Center For Music Experiment, University of California San
Diego.
.SH BUGS
