.TH R_FILES (DDBS) 
.SH NAME
r_files(eecs)   ddbs Raw data FILES
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The DDBS data files can be viewed as 
tables of information about different classes
of objects.
Each table represents a different class of objects, 
while each line, or entry, in the table
describes one member of the class.
Each entry consists of a number of strings of characters, or
fields, describing various qualities, or attributes, of the
object associated with the entry.
The following hypothetical table of students further illustrates
these terms:
.nf

	file demo

	___________________________________________
	|name		|age	|class	|entry date	|
	___________________________________________
	|smith, m.j.	|19	|soph	|761210		|
	|jones, t.p.	|31	|sr	|761025		|
	|han, k.w.	|20	|jr	|740930		|
	-------------------------------------------

.fi
.PP
The class of objects described is students.
There are entries for three students and
each entry consists of fields describing four
attributes: name, age, class, and entry date.
.PP
DDBS data files can be printed in the above
form, but, in order to conserve storage space, they
are stored in the computer in a slightly different
way.
.PP
If the above example were actually stored on the
computer and it were printed out using the cat(I)
command, the result would be as follows:
.nf

	% cat demo
	
	nm smith, m.j.
	ag 19
	cl soph
	dt 761210
	$
	nm jones, t.p.
	ag 31
	cl sr
	dt 761025
	$
	nm han, k.w.
	ag 20
	cl jr
	dt 740930
	$
.fi
.PP
Each field occupies one line and is preceded
by a field key identifying the attribute which
the field describes.
A group of fields comprising one entry is separated
from the next group by a dollar sign ($).
.PP
Each type of DDBS data file is associated with
a specification file.
The specification files describe the fields found in entries
in their corresponding data files.
The attribute described by each field, the field key,
the maximum number of characters allowed in the field,
and the type of data allowed in the field are all
indicated in the specification file.
.SH "SAWS DATA FILES"
.PP
SAWS data files have a uniform naming convention.
Each data file name begins with the letter 'r' followed
by two letters indicating the class of data file.
Following these three letters is a period ('.') followed
by a string of characters indicating the quarter and/or
year for which the file was created.
For example, rco.f76-7 is the name of the quarterly
course file for the fall quarter of the 1976-1977
academic year.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.nf
f_files         ddbs specification files
file_system     unix FILE SYSTEM structure
book            list data file in tabular form
checkin         input/append to file and verify data
checkout        verify correctness of data file form
ddsort          sort ddbs files
