.TH READNEWS 1
.SH NAME
readnews \- read news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B readnews
[
.B \-a
date ]
[
.B \-n
newsgroups ]
[
.B \-t
titles ]
[
.B \-lprxh
]
[
.B \-c
[
"mailer" ]]
.PP
.B readnews
.B \-e
[ newsgroups ]
.PP
.B readnews
.B \-s
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I readnews
without argument prints unread articles.
There are several interfaces available:
.TP 10
Flag
Interface
.TP 10
default
A
.I msgs(1)
like interface.
.TP 10
.B -M
An interface to
.I Mail(1).
.TP 10
.B -c
A
.IR /bin/mail(1) -like
interface.
.TP 10
.BI "-c " ``mailer''
All selected articles written to a temporary file.  Then the mailer is
invoked.  The name of the temporary file is referenced with a "%".
Thus, "mail -f %" will invoke mail on a temporary file consisting of all
selected messages.
.TP 10
.B -p
All selected articles are sent to the standard output.  No questions asked.
.TP 10
.B -l
Only the titles output.  The
.I .newsrc
file will not be updated.
.LP
The
.B -r
flag causes the articles to be printed in reverse order.  The
.B -h
flag causes articles to be printed in a much less verbose format.
.PP
The following flags determine the selection of articles.
.TP 10
.BI "-n " newsgroups
Select all articles that belong to
.I newsgroups.
.TP 10
.BI "-t " titles
Select all articles whose titles contain one of the strings specified by
.I titles.
.TP 10
.BI "-a " [date]
Select all articles that were posted past the given
.I date
(in
.I getdate(3)
format).
is assumed.
.TP 10
.B -x
Ignore
.I .newsrc
file.  That is, select articles that have already been read as well as new ones.
.PP
.I readnews
maintains a
.I .newsrc
file in the user's home directory that specifies all news articles
already read.  It is updated at the end of each reading session in
which the
.BR -x " or " -l
options weren't specified.
.PP
If the user wishes, he may place an options line in his
.I .newsrc
file.
This line starts with the word
.B options
(left justified) followed by the list of standard options just as
they would be typed on the command line.  Such a list may include:
the
.B -n
flag along with a newsgroup list; a favorite interface; and/or
the
.B -r
or
.B -t
flag.  Continuation lines are specified by following lines
beginning with a space or tab character.
Similarly, options can be specified in the
.B NEWSOPTS
environment parameter.  Where conflicts exist, option on the command
line take precedence, followed by the
.I .newsrc
.B options
line, and lastly the
.B NEWSOPTS
parameter.
.PP
The
.B -e
option causes all articles belonging to the specified
.I newsgroups
that have expired to be canceled.
.I Newsgroups
defaults to the local default, usually
.B all.
.PP
As a special case,
.B readnews -s
will print the newsgroup subscription list.
.PP
When the user uses the reply command of the
.IR msgs(1) " or " /bin/mail(1)
interfaces, the environment parameter
.B MAILER
will be used to determine
which mailer to use.  The default is usually /bin/mail.
.PP
If the user so desires, he may specify a specific paging progam
for articles.  The environment parameter PAGER should be set to
the paging program.  The name of the article is referenced with
a `%', as in the
.B -c
option.  If no `%' is present, the article will be piped to the program.
Paging may be disabled by setting PAGER to a null value.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 10
.B readnews
Read all unread articles using the
.I msgs(1)
interface.  The
.I .newsrc
file is updated at the end of the session.
.TP 10
.B readnews -c ``ed %'' -l
Invoke the
.I ed(1)
text editor on a file containing the titles of all unread articles.  The
.I .newsrc
file is
.B not
updated at the end of the session.
.TP 10
.B readnews -n all !fa.all -M -r
Read all unread articles except articles whose newsgroups begin with
"fa." via
.I Mail(1)
in reverse order.  The
.I .newsrc
file is updated at the end of the session.
.TP 10
.B "readnews -p -n all -a last thursday"
Print every single article since last Thursday.  The
.I .newsrc
file is
updated at the end of the session.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.RI /usr/spool/news/ newsgroup / number
News articles
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/active
Active newsgroups
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/sys
System subscriptions
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/help
Help file for
.I msgs(1)
interface
.TP 25
~/.newsrc
Options and list of previously read articles
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
newscheck(1),
inews(1),
sendnews(1),
recnews(1),
uurec(1),
msgs(1),
Mail(1),
mail(1),
getdate(3),
news(5),
newsrc(5)
.SH AUTHORS
Matt Glickman
.br
Mark Horton
.br
Stephen Daniel
.br
Tom R. Truscott
