.TH RSORT III 12/76-PRELIMINARY
.SH NAME
rsort(III)	Raw data file SORT
.SH SYNOPSIS
sort [-b] [-i data_file] [-o outfile] specification_file [sort_key[.opt]...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Rsort sorts raw data files used by the 
DDBS (Little Data Base System) accounting
and scheduling programs.
It allows DDBS data files to be sorted on any
field or combination of fields.  If no sort keys are
specified the file is sorted alphanumerically using the
order in which the fields appear in the file as a sort
order.  If a sort key or keys are given, the file
is sorted according to the associated fields using
the field type stated in the specification file to determine
the type of sort.
Alternate sort types can be obtained by appending
codes to the sort keys following a period.
Alternate sort types are:
.nf
.sp 1
	r	reverse order
	n	numeric order
	d	dictionary order (only blanks,letters, 
		and numbers,considered)
.sp 1
.fi
.PP
Output from rsort is normally in the same form as the
input.  Output can be obtained in a fixed field horizontal
form (``booked'') by including the b flag 
in the program call.
The input/output files may not be explicitly included in
the program call. If they are omitted the terminal is used.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp 
.nf
Typical data file 

st doe, j.d.
sd cs
dv cs
cn 199
u 4
dg bsee
ch .2
in smith, p.r.
dt 770108
$
st johnson, m.p.
sd eecs
dv eecs
cn 299
u 2
dg msee
ch .1
in jones, r.j.
dt 770102
$
st han, p.l.
sd cs
dv cs
cn 602
u 8
dg phd
ch 1
in smoth, p.r.
dt 760101
$
% rsort -i datafile spec_file in	Sort by instructor name
st johnson, m.p.
sd eecs
dv eecs
cn 299
u 2
dg msee
ch .1
in jones, r.j.
dt 770102
$
st doe, j.d.
sd cs
dv cs
cn 199
u 4
dg bsee
ch .2
in smith, p.r.
dt 770108
$
st han, p.l.
sd cs
dv cs
cn 602
u 8
dg phd
ch 1
in smoth, p.r.
dt 760101
$
.in -8
% rsort -i datafile -b spec_file dv dt	Sort by dv ant dt, leave booked
.nf
han, p.l.        cs    cs   602  8      phd  1      smoth, p.r.    760101 
doe, j.d.        cs    cs   199  4      bsee .2     smith, p.r.    770108 
johnson, m.p.    eecs  eecs 299  2      msee .1     jones, r.j.    770102 
.in +8
.nf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
r_files(II)	ddbs Raw data FILES
f_files(II)	ddbs Specification FILES
.SH NOTES

