.TH SCALEPX 1 "3/25/85"
.SH NAME
.PP
.I scalepx,
\- scale a TeX pixel font file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B scalepx
scale-factor input-file [ output-file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Scalepx
allows one to scale the characters in a TeX pixel file by an
arbitrary amount.
.B Scale-factor
is a positive floating-point number that specifies the amount
to scale the original file to produce the new file, so a
.B scale-factor
of 1.0 will duplicate the input file to the output file.
The image and size for the character are scaled according to the given
.B scale-factor,
as is the ``character home'' (the X and Y offset).
.B Input-file
should be a valid existing pixel file to read the initial image from, 
.I scalepx
will then scale the font by
.B scale-factor
and write it into the file named by
.B output-file
(which, if not specified, is inferred from the input file name).
.PP
The pixel font file names are usually of the form ``name.extension''
where the name is the font face (such as ``amr10'' or ``amit12'') and
the extension is formed from the printer resolution times the magnification
divided by two and the string ``pxl''.
Thus ``amr10.1500pxl'' is the font used for magnification 1000 (\\magstep0)
on 300dpi printers.  When forming the output file name from the input name,
.I scalepx
simply multiplies the existing extension integer by the scale factor
and uses the result as the extension of the output file.
.PP
The program uses a simple cartesian scaling algorithm, that is, it
paints a pixel from the old character image onto the new character
image after multiplying the coordinates of that pixel by the
.B scale-factor
(which maps that pixel position to another position on the new image).
Despite the simplicity of the algorithm, reasonably good results are
produced as long as the image is not shrunk by more than 20-30%
(blowing up the image causes it to become more grainy as
there is no interpolation of points).
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
John Coker
University of California, Berkeley
john@renoir.berkeley.edu
.fi
.SH BUGS
.PP
The program should have some intelligence about what changes in a
character when you scale it, but this was considered much too hard
and not really necessary.
