.TH SHOWTC LOCAL
.SH NAME
showtc - show termcap file entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
showtc -DSbdgsx [-f tcfile] [entry] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Showtc
displays termcap entries from a file in human readable form.
The entries are sorted on the two character names that make
up the terminal escape sequences, and if an entire file is being
displayed then the output is also sorted on the entry names.
With no arguments,
.I showtc
prints all entries in the 
specified termcap database.
The pathname of the database will be taken from the TERMCAP environment
variable, or will be
.I /etc/termcap
if TERMCAP is not defined, or does not represent a full pathname.
.PP
The flags have the following meaning:
.TP 8
.B \-D
look for and print duplicate names, and also print the database.
.TP
.B \-S
do not sort the entries before printing.
.TP
.B \-b
print a bare termcap entry,
to be used to print one or more raw entries.
.TP
.B \-d
Same as
.B \-D
but doesn't print the database.
.TP
.B \-g
sort on generic names (the second field),
rather than by two-character names (the first field).
.TP
.B \-s
do not print the two character name before each capability.  Mainly for use by
.B difftc(l).
.TP
.B \-x
expand the tc= capabilities.
.PP
An alternate termcap file can be specified after the
.B \-f
flag; make sure to specify the full pathname.
.PP
If one or more terminal types are named,
.I showtc
will display just those entries.
Unless
.B \-b
was specified, tc= references will be expanded.
.SH FILES
/etc/termcap	;the default termcap database
.SH SEE ALSO
termcap(3), termcap(5), difftc(l)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
With certain options, messages about duplicate definitions.
.SH BUGS
Duplicate capabilities are not noted.
Such duplicates are ignored by
.IR termcap (3)
but might be of interest in this context.
