.TH SPELL 1
.SH NAME
Spell \- make spelling corrections, with help
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Spell
[
.B \-n
]
file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Spell will prompt you with words
that are not recognized by the
regular spell command (unless they
have been placed in your personal
exception list).
The exception list is in the file
.I .except
if it exists, otherwise in
.I .except
in your home directory.
To each prompt
you have several possible responses.
.IP "! (or carriage return)"
.br
You like the way
the word is spelled
and want it in your
exception list.
.IP "& (or) -"
.br
You want no changes
made and no exception
generated.
.IP \f2fix\fP
You want \f2fix\fP, the correction,
substituted globally for the
prompted misspelling.
.IP "? \f2pattern\fP (or) \f2pattern\fP"
.br
With this response you are
fishing for help.  The
\f2pattern\fP is used by grep
to search the dictionary
for reasonable corrections.
You will be prompted again
to correct the word.  The "?"
may be omitted when \f2pattern\fP
contains one of the meta
characters [^.*$].
Note that there must be a space after the "?".
.IP /
The word is grepped for in the input file,
and the line(s) found are printed.
.LP
All the fixes that you suggest
will first be corrected in your file
and then be rechecked with spell.
If spell disagrees with your
fixes, you will be notified and
get another chance to correct them.
.LP
Normally, all words in ALL CAPS are accepted as correct.
If the
.B \-n
option is given, all words beginning with a capital letter are
accepted as correct.
.SH FILES
/usr/bin/spell
.br
/bin/sort
.br
/usr/new/Correct
.br
\&.except
.br
$HOME/.except
.br
/usr/tmp/Sp[ABC]$$
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR ex(1) ,
.IR grep(1) ,
.IR spell(1) .
.SH BUGS
Needs the Berkeley editor
.I ex
and the Berkeley
.I grep
command in order to avoid matching short strings
such as ``fo'' as part of larger words like ``information''.
