.TH SPLSCR 1 local
.SH NAME
splscr \- view text on split screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B splscr
upperfile lowerfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility allows viewing text on a simulated split screen
on terminals with sufficient capability.
The upper and lower halves of the screen may be scrolled separately
or synchronously.
Either or both text streams may be searched for patterns in the style of
.IR ed (1).
.PP
The user's terminal must have the following minimum capabilities:
cursor motion, insert and delete line, clear screen, and clear to end of line.
See
.IR termcap (5)
for an explanation of these capabilities.
.PP
Either or both text streams may come from standard input by specifying
``\fB\-\fP'' as the appropriate file name.
Like
.IR more (1),
if a pattern search fails on standard input, the stream is left at EOF.
New file names may be specified from within
.I splscr
(see below).
.PP
The control port is placed in CBREAK and NOECHO mode while
.I splscr
is running.
Commands to
.I splscr
are not echoed to the screen.
(This program is not for the faint hearted!)
Commands may apply to either or both screens.
A command that is to apply only to the upper screen is always terminated
with ``<''.
A command that is to apply only to the lower screen is always terminated
with ``>''.
The only exception is the command ``\fB.\fP'' which simply repeats the last command.
Commands are:
.br
.ns
.TP "\w'\fBr\fP\fIfilenameC\fP    'u"
.I command
.I action
.br
.TP
[\fIn\fP]\fIC\fP
Scroll one or both screens. The default for
.I n
is 1/2 the screen size except as noted below.
.I C
must be one of the following command characters:
.br
.RS "\w'\fBr\fP\fIfilenameC\fP    'u"
.TP "\w'\s-2NEWLINE\s0  'u"
\fB<\fP
scroll only the upper screen
.I n
lines.
.br
.ns
.TP
\fB>\fP
scroll only the lower screen
.I n
lines.
.br
.ns
.TP
\fBd\fP
scroll both screens
.I n
lines.
\s-2CTRL\s0-D is equivalent to ``\fBd\fP''.
\s-2RETURN\s0
is equivalent except the default for
.I n
is 1.
.br
.ns
.TP
\fBz\fP
scroll both screens a full screen size.
.br
.ns
.TP
\s-2NEWLINE\s0
scroll both screens 1 line.
.br
.RE
.TP "\w'\fBr\fP\fIfilenameC\fP    'u"
\fB^\fP\fIC\fP
Rewind the file associated with the screen indicated by
.IR C .
.br
.TP
[\fIn\fP]\fBs\fP\fIC\fP
Skip
.I n
lines of the file associated with the screen indicated by
.IR C .
The default for 
.I n
is a full screen's worth.
.br
.TP
[\fIn\fP]\fBg\fP\fIC\fP
Go to line
.I n
of the file associated with the screen indicated by
.IR C .
The default for 
.I n
is 1.
.br
.TP
\fB\'\fP\fIC\fP
Return the file associated with the screen indicated by
.I C
to the position it had before the last search command.
If no search command had been given, rewind the file.
.br
.TP
/\fIpatternC\fP
Search one or both text streams for
.IR pattern ,
which is specified in the style of
.IR ed (1).
If the terminating character is ``<'', search only the upper screen.
If the terminating character is ``>'', search only the lower screen.
Otherwise the terminating character must be ``/'' or \s-2RETURN\s0.
To include an occurance of any of the above characters in
.IR pattern ,
precede it with ``\\''. Erase and kill characters may be thus escaped also.
.br
.TP
^R\fIC\fP
Redraw the screen indicated by
.IR C .
.br
.TP
.B .
Repeat the last of any of the above commands.
.br
.TP
[\fIn\fP]\fBw\fP\fIC\fP
Change the window size for the screen indicated by
.IR C .
The default for
.I n
is to create equal sized windows for both screens using the
full size of the terminal's CRT.
The default for
.I C
is the lower screen.
.br
.TP
\fBr\fP\fIfilenameC\fP
Read the specified file into the specified screen.
The default for
.I C
is to specify the lower window since it is more reasonable to scroll.
``\fB\-\fP'' may be used to specify standard input.
.br
.TP
\fBh\fP or \fB?\fP
Display a brief command summary in the lower screen.
The
.B q
command exits from this mode.
.br
.TP
.B q
Restore the control port modes and exit.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/splscr.help	The HELP information
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR more (1),
.IR ed (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Intended to be self explanatory.
.SH BUGS
Doesn't optimize cursor motion.
.SH AUTHOR
David L. Wasley
.br
University of California
.br
Berkeley
