.TH TBE 1
.SH NAME
TBE \- screen oriented editor and browser for Troll/USE relations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B focus
[-w] [-c [+|-]] [-a [+|-]] [-n]  database
.SH DESCRIPTION
TBE provides screen-oriented data entry and browsing facilities for Troll/USE
relations.
The parameter is the database directory
for the relation(s) being edited. The -c option
is directly followed by + or -, indicating whether the autoclear 
option should be on (+) or off (-).
The -a option is directly followed by + or -, indicating whether the
initial tuple display option is on (+) or off (-); the default is on.
The option -w turns off the update facilities.
The option -n turns off the attribute alias facilities.
.PP
TBE is used to edit a single relation at a time, with the names of the
attributes of a relation (or their aliases) on the left hand
size of the screen.
Attributes are selected by cursor movement or by attribute name selection
(the ` option).
A tuple of a relation may be edited or displayed.
The screen editing facilities are similar to those of 'vi' and 'ex'
in visual mode. TBE performs input validation on all Troll/USE built-in
domain types and subranges, and marks invalid attributes with a '#' symbol
on data entry.
.PP
Besides data entry, TBE provides commands to browse through relations
either by retrieving single tuples (full key retrieval) or
sets of tuples by providing attribute values, attribute substrings,
sets of attribute values and ranges,
range constraints (partial match retrieval or "focus").
The group command provides partitioning of a set by the different 
possible values for an attribute.
The table command displays a set of tuples in tabular format with
sorting on the first named attribute.
The results of selections may be saved in the database in a form 
suitable for either text processing or Troll/USE data entry.
.LP
Each set retrieved with a focus command is termed
a partition. Browsing and selection is restricted to the current partition,
while further partial match retrievals may be made on a partition.
An attribute starting with a comparison operator (>, <, <=, >=, $, =, ~=)
results in a partial match retrieval. 
A set of values and value ranges are enclosed within square brackets "["
and "]".
(Set elements are separated by commas and the limits of a range are
separated by "..").
Troll/USE expressions for retrieval may be enclosed in parentheses "(" and
")",
so that expressions and comparisons
can be made against other attributes of the same relation.
The special value 'null' can be used in all attributes and
indicates the Troll/USE undefined value.
.LP
Arithmetic can be performed on numeric attribute values by the
operations of addition (+), subtraction (-), multiplication (*),
and division (/) to modify the current value of an attribute.
.sp
.LP
.B COMMAND LINE COMMANDS
.sp
\'!' 	Escape to UNIX shell.
.br
c+	Turn on autoclear mode for insertion and retrieval (default case).
.br
c-	Turn off autoclear mode.
.br
\'?'	Identical to help.
.IP beautify
Redraw the screen (used when mail or messages have arrived).
.IP clear
Remove the attribute values from the current relation window.
.IP "copy \fIfile\fR"
Copy the contents of the relation or partition to file \fIfile\fR in the database
directory, using one line per tuple.
.IP "define \fIname\fR \fIstring\fR"
Define a user command.  If \fIstring\fR is omitted, display current
definition of \fIname\fR.
.IP "focus K"
Display the selection conditions for focus K, where 1 <= K <= current focus level.
.IP "group \fIattrlist\fR"
Generate a group on the listed attributes.
.IP help
Present a summary of the TBE commands.
.IP "list \fIfile\fR"
Copy the contents of the relation or partition to file
.I file
in the current directory, using one line per attribute.
.IP quit
End of session, terminate and save log if requested.
.IP relation
Start editing or browsing a new relation, followed by
a relation name.
.IP "repeat \fIstring\fR"
Execute the command \fIstring\fR repeatedly on all elements of current partition.
.IP "screen \fIfile\fR"
Store the current screen image, one line at a time in file
.I file
in the current directory.
.IP "table \fIattrlist\fR"
Display a table of the current relation or focus set sorted in ascending
order on the first named attribute.
.IP troll
Start a conversation with Troll. Terminated by <cntrl>d
(Warning: do not type 'quit' to Troll!)
.IP w+
Turn on autowrap mode for next and previous commands (default case).
.IP w-
Turn off autowrap mode.
.LP
All the commands (except copy, repeat, and table) may be abbreviated to the first character.
Any other command line input is interpreted as a 
.I "user-defined"
command.
Such commands may be saved in the database in relation defines,
which has two attributes, def and value, both of type string, with def
being the key and the name of the user-defined command.  Value is the
string corresponding to the command sequence associated with the command name.
If a command is not a predefined tbe command and is not defined in
the current session, then the relation defines in the open database
is searched for that command.
.sp
.B CURSOR MOVEMENTS
.sp
\'h'	Moves the cursor one position to the left (left arrow).
.br
\'l'	Moves the cursor one position to the right (right arrow).
.br
\'j'	Moves the cursor one position down (down arrow).
.br
\'k' 	Moves the cursor one position up (up arrow).
.br
\'^'	Moves the cursor to start of the attribute.
.br
\'$'	Moves the cursor to end of the attribute.
.br
\'\ \'	Alias for cursor movement right.
.br
\'+'	Alias for 'j'; cursor movement down.
.br
\'-'	Alias for 'k'; cursor movement up.
.br
<cr>	Alias for cursor movement down and '^'.
.br
\'`\fIstring\fR'	Moves the cursor to row where attribute name begins with string.
.sp
.B SCREEN EDITING
.sp
\'a'	Start entering text after cursor position.
.br
\'i'	Start entering text before cursor position.
.br
\'r'	Replace current character with new one.
.br
\'s'	Replace the current character by new text.
.br
\'x'	Remove the character pointed at by the cursor.
.br
\'C'	Alias for 'D' followed by 'a'.
.br
\'D'	Delete the remainder of the attribute line from cursor.
.br
\'M'	Replace current integer value with max (attribute)+1.
.br
\'R'	Start overwriting text.
.br
\'X'	Destroy text from start of attribute to cursor.
.sp
.B SCREEN ARITHMETIC
.sp
\'(+\fIval\fR)'	Add value to attribute.
.br
\'(-\fIval\fR)'	Subtract value from attribute.
.br
\'(*\fIval\fR)'	Multiply attribute by value.
.br
\'(/\fIval\fR)'	Divide attribute by value.
.sp
.B UPDATE
.sp
\'d'	Delete the tuple referenced for update.
.br
\'u'	Undo the last deletion.
.br	
\'w'	Update the tuple referenced for update.
.br
\'W'	Insert value on screen as new tuple.
.sp
.B RETRIEVAL
.sp
\'g'	Get tuple with specified key (full tuple retrieval).
.br
\'G'	Display the value of the tuple reference for update.
.br
\'n'	Get the next tuple in the current partition.
.br
\'p'	Get the previous tuple in the current partition.
.br
\'N'	Get the next group of tuples in the current partition (with group command).
.br
\'P'	Get the previous group of tuples in the current partition.
.sp
.B FOCUS COMMANDS
.sp
\'f'	The focus command, used to retrieve a new partition.
.br
\'&'	Alias for 'f'.
.br
\'|'	Perform focus with attribute test disjunction (or).
.br
\'~'	Construct complement of current partition.
.br
\'q'	Drop the current partition.
.br
\'Q'	Drop all the partitions and return to relation level.
.sp
.B SCREEN MANIPULATION
.sp
\'b'	Beautify screen.
.br
\'c'	Clear the header, error markers, and attribute values.
.br
\'e'	Explain attribute properties and give example, using attributes relation.
.br	
\'F'	Advance to next page of attributes.
.br
\'B'	Return to previous page of attributes.
.br
\'t'	Show the type definitions of the attributes.
.br
\'?' 	Alias for help command.
.br
\'A'	Display the aggregate values (count, sum, min, max, avg, sdev).
.br
\':'	Go to command mode.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
"A TBE Tutorial" by A.I. Wasserman, M.L. Kersten and C. Resnikoff.
.br
troll (1), vi (1), tpg (1), trollsort (1)
.SH BUGS
1. Direct commands to Troll/USE can cause assertion errors (killing the 
Troll/USE process) or otherwise subvert the state TBE thinks Troll/USE is in.
A trailing ';' is required on each Troll/USE command.
.br
2. Each attribute line is limited to 60 characters.
.br
3. TBE should have a more general "undo" command.
.br
4. The group command does not work properly for attributes that
refer to separately defined domains.
.br
.SH AUTHORS
Martin Kersten,
Anthony Wasserman
