.TH TCSH LOCAL
.SH NAME
tcsh \- New C shell with tenex-like file name completion (and more)
.SH DESCRIPTION
We have installed
an enhanced version of the Berkeley UNIX C shell
.I csh (1).
It behaves exactly like the C shell,
except for the added utilities of:
.PP
.in +6
.ti -3
1) Interactive file name and user name completion.
.sp
.ti -3
2) File/Directory/User list in the middle of a typed command.
.sp
.ti -3
3) Timer for automatic logout after specified idle time.
.sp
.ti -3
4) Terminal mode sanity checking.
.sp
.ti -3
5) Saving history between logouts.
.in -6
.PP
A description of these features follows.
For information on the other standard 
.I csh
features, please see "man csh".
.SH "1. FILE NAME COMPLETION"
In typing file names as arguments to commands,
it is no longer necessary to type a complete name,
only a unique abbreviation is necessary.
When you type an ESCAPE to
.I csh
it will complete the file name for you,
echoing the full name on the terminal.
.PP
If the file name prefix you typed matches no file name, the terminal
bell is enunciated.
The file name may be partially completed if the prefix matches several
longer file names.  If this is the case, the name is extended up to
the ambiguous deviation, and the bell is enunciated.
.PP
.I Example
.PP
In the following example, assume the plus character ``+''
is where the user typed the ESCAPE key.
Assume the current directory contained the files:
.sp
.nf
   DSC.OLD    bin        cmd       lib        memos
   DSC.NEW    chaosnet   cmtest    mail       netnews
   bench      class      dev       mbox       new
.fi
.sp
The command:
.sp
		% vi ch+
.sp
would cause 
.I csh
to complete the command with the name \fIchaosnet\fR.  If instead, the
user had typed:
.sp
		% vi D+
.sp
.I csh
would have extended the name to \fIDSC.\fR and enunciated the terminal bell, 
indicating partial completion.
.PP
File name completion works equally well when other directories are addressed.
In addition,
the tilde (~) convention for home directories is understood in this context.
Thus,
.sp
		% cd ~speech/data/fr+
.sp
does what one might expect.  This may also be used to expand login names only.
Thus,
.sp
		% cd ~sy+
.sp
does a 
.I cd
to the 
.I synthesis
directory.
.SH "2. FILE/DIRECTORY LIST"
At any point in typing a command, you may request "what files are available"
or "what files match my current specification".
Thus, when you have typed, perhaps:
.sp
		% cd ~speech/data/bench/fritz/
.sp
you may wish to know what files or subdirectories exist
(in ~speech/data/bench/fritz),
without, of course, aborting the command you are typing.
Typing the character Control-D at this point, will list the files available.
The files are listed in multicolumn format, sorted column-wise.
Directories and executable files are indicated with a trailing `/' and `*',
respectively.
Once printed, the command is re-echoed for you to complete.
.PP
Additionally, one may want to know which files match a prefix, the current file
specification so far.
If the user had typed:
.sp
		% cd ~speech/data/bench/fr
.sp
followed by a control-D, all files and subdirectories whose prefix was
``fr'' in the directory ~speech/data/bench would be printed.
Notice that the example before was simply
a degenerate case of this with a null trailing file name. 
(The null string is a prefix of all strings.)
Notice also, that
a trailing slash is required to pass to a \fInew\fR sub-directory for 
both file name completion and listing.
.PP
Notice, the degenerate case
.sp
		% ~^D
.sp
will print a full list of login names on the current system.

F.Y.I.: This shell uses neither raw or cbreak mode.
It works by setting the "additional" tty break character to ESC.
There is no overhead usually associated by programs which run in
raw or cbreak mode.
.SH "3. AUTO-LOGOUT"
A new shell variable has been added called \fIautologout\fB.
If the terminal remains idle (no character input) at the shell's
top level for the number of minutes greater than the autologout
value, you are automatically logged off.
This feature was added primarily for security reasons as people
often forget to log off when they leave, permitting anyone to walk by
and peruse your mail, or private files.
.PP
The autologout feature is temporarily disabled while a command is executing.
The initial value of \fIautologout\fB is 60.
If unset or set to 0, autologout is entirely disabled.
.PP
.SH "4. SANITY"
The shell will now restore your terminal to a sane mode if it appears to
return from some command in raw, cbreak, or noecho mode.
.PP
.SH "5. SAVEING HISTORY"
The shell now has the facility to save your history list between login session.
If the shell variable \fBsavehist\fR is set to a number
then that number of commands from your history list is saved.
For example, placing the line
.PP
	set history=50 savehist=50
.PP
in your .cshrc file maintains a history list of length 50 and 
saves the entire list when
you logout, to be retored when you login next.
The commands are saved in the file \fB.history\fR in your login directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
csh (1)
.SH BUGS
A control-D on a blank line (a degenerate case of the List command)
does not list your current directory;
it logs you out.  (But try <space><control-d>).
.PP
It would be nice if you could change the command characters to something else
and not just be stuck with ESC and ^D.
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Greer, HP Labs
