.TH TEMPO 1 "12 January 1984"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
tempo \- print or set the network date
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tempo
.RB "[ -u ] [ yymmddhhmm [ " . "ss ] ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
If no arguments are given, the current date and network time are printed.
If a date is specified, the current date is set
on all the machines under the control of timedaemons.
The
.I -u
flag is used to display the date in GMT (universal) time.
This flag may also be used to set GMT time.
.I yy
is the last two digits of the year;
the first
.I mm
is the month number;
.I dd
is the day number in the month;
.I hh
is the hour number (24 hour system);
the second
.I mm
is the minute number;
.BI . ss
is optional and is the seconds.
For example:
.IP
tempo 8401121921
.PP
sets the date to Jan. 12, 1984, 7:21 PM.
The year, month and day may be omitted, the current
values being the defaults.
The system operates in GMT.
.I Tempo
takes care of the conversion to and from
local standard and daylight time.
.PP
.I Tempo
makes 
.I date (1)
obsolete.
.SH FILES
/usr/adm/timedaemon.log records time settings 
on all the machines
as performed by timedaemons
.SH SEE ALSO
adjtime(2), 
.br
\fITEMPO: A Network Time Controller for a Distributed Berkeley UNIX System\fP, R. Gusella, S. Zatti
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
`Failed to set date: Not owner' if you try to change the network date
but are not the super-user.
.SH BUGS
.I Tempo (1) 
communicates with a master timedaemon via a udp socket. There
is therefore the possibility that a packet is lost and the correction
not performed.
Furthermore, due to the activity of the timedaemons, the setting of the
date may take till a couple of minutes from the moment the command has been
issued.
