.TH TEXPREP L
.UC 4
.SH NAME
.I texprep
\- prepare TeX files for transfer to CMS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
texprep [ \-e \fBchar\fP ] [ \-M \fBchar\fP ] [ \-m \fBchar\fP \fBstring\fP ] [ \-l \fBnumber\fP ] [ \fBfilename\fP ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Texprep
does various things to a list of TeX input files listed on its
argument line (or given as standard input) and writes the result
on the standard output.
Operations done are splitting long lines and making character
translations.
As a side effect,
.I texprep
also removes non-ascii characters from the input.
This program is designed for preprocessing TeX files before they
are shipped off to another machine (such as the IBM CMS machine
through the
.I ibmtex
interface).
.PP
The algorithym for splitting long lines is fairly simple, the
program first looks for a blank and, failing that, the end of
a control sequence.
If neither is found, the line is broken at the maximum line
length, even if that is in the middle of a word.
The maximum line length may be specified with the \-l
option (see the options section below).
.PP
The character translation is also fairly simple.
Single characters are matched with strings in a translation
table and when an input character has a mapping string ascociated with
it, the string replaces the character in the output.
New matches may be specified with the \-m option and existing
matches can be removed with the \-M option (see below).
.PP
The default mappings are as follows (there is a space after each of
the control sequences to avoid concatenation with next token):
.nf
.ta 0.5i 2i 3.5i
.sp
	\fBInput\fP	\fBOutput\fP
	^	\\sp	(caret, \s-2ASCII\s+2 94)
	_	\\sb	(underscore, \s-2ASCII\s+2 95)
.\"	[	\\lbrack	(left bracket, \s-2ASCII\s+2 91)
.\"	]	\\rbrack	(right bracket, \s-2ASCII\s+2 93)
.\"	`	\\lq	(left quote, \s-2ASCII\s+2 96)
.\"	'	\\rq	(right quote, \s-2ASCII\s+2 39)
	\s-2TAB\s+2	\s-2SPACE\s+2	(tab, \s-2ASCII\s+2 9)
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
.B \-e
The \-e option specifies the TeX escape character (which introduces
escape sequences).
The default escape character is backslash (ASCII 92, ``\\'').
.TP 6
.B \-m
The \-m option allows the user to specify additional character
translations to suplement or change the basic ones.
The first option argument is the character to replace and
the second argument is the string to replace it with.
.TP 6
.B \-M
The \-M option removes an existing character translation.
It makes the character given as the argument map to itself
in the output again.
.TP 6
.B \-l
The \-l option specifies the maximum line length in the output.
If lines longer than this are present in the input, they are
truncated before this many characters.
The default maximum line width is 79 characters.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR tex(l) ,
.IR ibmtex(l) ,
.IR inelim(l) ,
.IR rje(l)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
John Coker
University of California, Berkeley
(john@renoir.berkeley.edu, ucbvax!john)
.SH BUGS
.PP
If a character to be mapped is found inside a control sequence,
it is not replaced, thus the character exists through to the
output, but only when immedately following the escape character
(i.e., in a one-character escape sequence).
.PP
If it can't find a reasonable break,
.I texprep
just breaks the line at the maximum length, possibly splitting
a word in half.
It is best to avoid long lines in your TeX documents if you
know you are going to be using
.I ibmtex.
