.de VS
.UC
.I Vsh
..
.de UX
.I Unix
..
.TH VSH 1 6/11/79 1
.SH NAME
Vsh \- visual shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Vsh
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vsh
is a highly interactive, visually oriented shell
which eases many programming activities.
Most commands involve only a single keypress.
These commands cause directories to be displayed,
editors to be entered,
and compilers to be invoked.
.PP
On entry to
.I Vsh,
the current directory is plotted on the screen.
Each member of the directory is labeled with a letter.
To select a member,
one presses its corresponding letter.
What happens after selection depends on the nature of the member.
If the member is a directory,
.VS
changes to that directory.
Text files are edited.
Full details are given later in this manual.
.PP
.VS
displays up to twenty files at a time.
Directories which are larger are broken into
twenty-file pages.
There can be ten pages holding a total of two-hundred members.
To select a page, one presses a digit
.B 0-9.
Pages are numbered one through ten with
.B 0
selecting page ten.
.PP
A well integrated feature of
.I Vsh
is its connection between compilers and editors.
To start a compile, one presses
.B M.
.I Vsh
then calls on
.I Make(I).
The output of this compile step is saved,
and one can later review for compile-time errors.
.I Vsh
numbers each error.
One can select an error by typing in its number.
After selection,
.I Vsh
calls an editor,
sending one to the proper file at the offending line.
One can jump between the editor and
.I Vsh
until one is ready for another compile.
.PP
Because
.VS
is unconventional, the best way to understand
how it works is by using it.
Because
.VS
is menu driven, it is hard to get lost.
Beginners should find
.VS
easier to learn then the conventional shell.
.SH ENVIRONMENT PARAMETERS
.PP
.VS
takes the following parameters from the global environment:
.TP 18
.B HOME
The home directory.  This parameter is automaticly set by
.UX
when one logs in.
.TP
.B SHELL
The users login shell.
.UX
also sets this parameter.
When it is necessary to escape to a shell,
this parameter selects the program to use.
.TP
.B TERM
The terminal type.
The terminal must be cursor addressable.
.PP
The user must set the
.B TERM
parameter himself.
As an example, to indicate your terminal is an adm3a, from
.I Csh(I)
type:
.PP
.B \ \ \ \ \ %\ setenv\ TERM\ adm3a
.PP
From
.I Sh(I)
type:
.PP
.B \ \ \ \ \ $\ TERM=adm3a;\ \ export\ TERM
.PP
See
.I Termcap(UCB)
for more information about the TERM parameter.
.br
.ne 10v
.SH FILE SELECTION
.PP
As indicated before, one selects a file by pressing
its corresponding letter.
What happens after selection depends on the nature of the file.
.TP 18
.B File type
.B Action
.sp
.TP
.B Directory
Change to new directory.
.TP
.B Archive
Print archive directory.  This works for both
.I Ar(I)
and
.I Cpio(I)
format archives.
.TP
.B Object program
Print name list (external symbols).
.TP
.B Core
Call debugger.
.TP
.B Text
Call editor.
.TP 
.B Other
Selection fails.
.br
.ne 10v
.SH DIRECTORY OPERATIONS
.PP
This is a list of the directory commands.
Before doing anything else, the user should become
familiar with commands which allow him to
select files and display directories.
In directories larger then twenty files,
the user should be able to display each page.
.br
.ne 10v
.TP 18
.B Command
.B Action
.sp 1
.TP
.B ^D
Leave
.I Vsh.
.TP
.B a-t
Select corresponding file.
.TP
.B 1-9
Select page 1-9.
.TP
.B 0
Select page 10.
.TP
.B +
Select next page.
.TP
.B ;
Same as
.B +.
.TP
.B \-
Select previous page.
.TP
.B ^\ (Home)
Change to home directory.
.TP
.B /
Change to root directory.
.TP
.B ?
Display help file.
.TP
.B !
Escape to shell.
.TP
.B %
Same as
.B !.
.TP
.B $
Escape to Bourne shell.
.TP
.B -Line\ Feed-
Change to previous (parent) directory.
.PP
.br
.ne 12v
.ti -5
These are convenience commands.
.TP 18
.B D
Display date.
.TP
.B I
DIsplay file.
.VS
prompts for a file and displays it as ascii text.
This is faster than a selection which calls the editor.
.TP
.B P
Process status.  Call /bin/ps.
.TP
.B W
Who.  Display who is logged in.
.TP
.B Y
Yank.  Display free ports.
.PP
.ti -5
These are advanced commands.
.TP 18
.B F
Select file by name.
.VS
prompts for a file name.
.VS
then selects the specified file.
.TP
.B C
Create a new file.
.VS
prompts for a file name and file type.
One may create text files and directories.
One may also copy and link from existing files.
.TP
.B L
Long format file listing.
Next to each file,
.VS
displays protection information in the same manner as
.I Ls(I).
.TP
.B O
Option listing.
The contents of command and parameter tables are displayed.
.VS
then prompts for commands which modify parameters and which
create, modify, and delete commands.
.SH REMOVE MODE
.PP
Press
.B R
to enter
.I Remove\ mode.
In
.I Remove\ mode,
selecting a file causes it to be marked for removal
with two slashes, "//."
Files selected a second time are unmarked.
Pressing
.B R
a second time causes all marked files to be removed.
The following commands are available in
.I Remove\ mode:
.TP 18
.B Command
.B Action

.TP
.B -Return-
Exit
.I Remove\ mode
with out removing marked files.
.TP
.B ^D
Same as
.B -Return-
.TP
.B a-t
Select corresponding file for removal.
.TP
.B *
Select all files on current page for removal.
.TP
.B 0\-9,\ +,\ \-
Select and display another page.
These commands are described earlier in the manual in
the section on directory operations.
.TP
.B ?
Display help file.
.TP
.B R
Remove marked files and exit
.I Remove\ mode.
If
.VS
cannot remove a file,
.VS
displays the reason and waits for a response.
Press
.B -Return-
to continue removing marked files.
Press
.B ^D
to immediately exit from
.I Remove\ mode.
.SH MAKE, GREP, AND SHOWFILE
.PP
.VS
interfaces to
.I Make(I)
and
.I Grep(I).
.VS
saves output from these programs and allows one to examine the
results in
.I Showfile\ mode.
From the directory page, the following commands control
.I Make,\ Grep,
and
.I Showfile.
.sp 1
.TP 18
.B G
.I Grep(I).
.VS
prompts for a pattern and file names, and then run
.I Grep
with these parameters.
The results are saved in the file
.I .grepout
and displayed in
.I Showfile\ mode.
.TP
.B S
Show previous
.I Grep.
The output of the last
.I Grep
is displayed in
.I Showfile\ mode.
.TP
.B M
.I Make(I).
.VS
runs
.I Make.
Execution is controlled by the
.I makefile
in the current directory.
Output is both displayed on the screen and saved in the file
.I .makerror.
When
.I Make
terminates,
.VS
displays
.I .makerror
in
.I Showfile\ mode.
.TP
.B N
.I Make(I)
running independently.
.I Make
is run but
.VS
does not wait for termination.
Output is saved in
.I .makerror,
but is not displayed on the screen.
When
.I Make
terminates,
the bell on your terminal rings twice.
Use
the
.B E
command to review the output in
.I .makerror.
.TP
.B E
Review errors.
The results of the last
.I Make
are displayed in
.I Showfile\ mode.
.br
.ne 10v
.SH SHOWFILE MODE
.PP
.I Showfile
displays the results of a
.I Make
or
.I Grep.
It is called by the
.B E
and
.B S
commands.
.I Showfile
is called automatically in the course of an
.B M
or
.B G
command.
.I Showfile
is essentially a special editor.
It has commands which allow one to display a file.
One can also command
.I Showfile
to examine a line of the file.
.I Showfile
scans this line and attempt to extract a file name
and line number.
.I Showfile
then runs the editor,
starting it at the specified line.
.PP
.br
.ne 10v
These are the
.I Showfile
commands.
It is not necessary to press -Return- after these commands.
When a complete command is sensed,
it is run immediately.
.TP 18
.B Command
.B Action
.sp
.TP
.B number\ p
Print file starting at specified line.
.TP
.B number\ e
Examine line for a file name and line number.
If a file name is found, run the editor on this file.
.TP
.B -Return-
Display next twelve lines.
.TP
.B number\ -Return-
Same as
.B "number e"
.TP
.B ^D
Leave
.I Showfile.
.TP
.B q
Leave
.I Showfile.
.TP
.B ?
Display help file.
.PP
All commands from the directory page which might be useful
are available in
.I Showfile\ mode.
They include
.B ^, /, !, %,
and
.B A
through
.B Z
except
.B L
and
.B R.
Particularly useful are
.B M
and
.B G
which allow new iterations of
.I Make
and
.I Grep,
.B %,
the escape to the shell,
and
.B F,
which allows one to edit files not found in the
file being shown.
.SH CONTROL COMMANDS
.PP
The operation of
.VS
is controled by its parameter and command tables.
The contents of these tables can be displayed via the
.B O
command.
These tables can be modified with control commands.
When
.VS
is invoked, it searches for the file
.I .vshrc
in your home directory.
Control comands are then read from this file,
allowing one to create a personalized environment.
The
.B O
command also prompts for control commands,
allowing for interactive modification of the tables.
.PP
These control commands should be presented in the same
lexical grammer as shell commands.
Spaces and tabs separate tokens.
Unquoted newlines terminate each statement.
A character may be quoted by preceding it with a
.B
\\.
All characters inside single quotes (' ') are quoted except the
single quote.
Inside double quotes (" "),
.B
\\
quotes another double quote and
.B
\\newline
is ignored.
Grave accents (` `) are treated as any other character.
Macros (such as $HOME) are not available yet.
The lexical grammer is compatible with that of
.I Sh(I).
The grammer is somewhat different from that of
.I Csh (I).
The file /usr/grad/scheibel/doc/dflt.vshrc contains default parameters.
One's
.I .vshrc
file is essentially appended to the end of
.I dflt.vshrc.
.PP
.br
.ne 20v
To change a parameter, use the format:
.PP
.B
\ \ \ \ \ PARAMETER\-NAME\ \  PARAMETER\-VALUE
.PP
.B PARAMETER\-NAME
can be any off the following:

.TP 18
.B Parameter
.B Usage
.sp
.TP
.B editor
Preferred editor.  Default is
.I /usr/ucb/vi.
.TP
.B nm
Namelist program.  Default is
.I /bin/nm.
.TP
.B db
Debugging program.  Default is
.I /bin/adb.
.TP
.B make
Make program.  Default is
.I /bin/make.
.TP
.B grep
Grep program.  Default is
.I /bin/grep.
.TP
.B ar
Archiving program.  Default is
.I /bin/ar.
.sp
.br
.ne 10v
.PP
To define a command, use the format:
.PP
.B
\ \ \ \ \ CHARACTER\ \  KEYWORD\ \  [PARAMETERS\ ...]
.PP
CHARACTER is the character which calls the new command.
Valid characters are
.B
! " # $ % & ' ( ) : * = ^ ~ [ ] { } < > , . / ?
and
.B A\-Z.
.br
.ne 15v
.PP
These are the valid keywords:
.TP 18
.B Keyword
.B Purpose
.sp
.TP 18
.B date
Display date.
.TP
.B showerror
Show errors from previous
.I Make.
.TP
.B showgrep
Show output from previous
.I Grep.
.TP
.B file
Select a file.  If parameter is present,
the parameter is selected.  Otherwise,
.VS
will prompt for a file name.
.TP
.B home
Change to home directory.
.TP
.B grep
Run
.I Grep.
.VS
will prompt for parameters.
.TP
.B wmake
Run
.I Make.
Wait for termination.
.TP
.B fmake
Run
.I Make.
Do not wait for termination.
.TP
.B remove
Enter
.I Remove\ mode.
.TP
.B longlist
Print long format listing of files on the current page.
.TP
.B display
Display the contents of a file.
If no parameter is present,
.VS
will prompt for a file name.
.TP
.B options
Display
.VS
options (parameter and command tables).
Accept commands which modify parameters and
which create, modify, and delete commands.
.TP
.B exec
Execute a program directly with the exec system call.
The first parameter must be the program name.
Directories are not successively searched as in the shell.
Full path names are necessary.
Any other parameters become parameters to the program.
If it is necessary to search several directories for programs,
to redirect files, to expand macros, or to expand file regular
expressions, use the
.B shell
keyword instead.
.TP
.B shell
If no parameter is present, an interactive shell is spawned.
If one parameter is present, it is passed to the shell
and run as a command.  Do not specify more than one parameter.
Instead, enclose the entire shell command in quotes
to provide
.VS
with only one parameter.
.TP
.B create
.VS
prompts for a new file name.  The file is created.
.TP
.B null
Delete command.  The command will no longer be active.
.SH FILES
.TP 18
.I $HOME/.vshrc
Initialization file.
.TP
.I /etc/termcap
Terminal capability database necessary for addressing cursor.
.TP
.I /usr/grad/scheibel/vsh/doc/*
Documentation and help files.
.TP
.I .makerror
File used to save the output of
.I make.
This file is always created in the current directory.
.TP
.I .grepout
File used to save the output of
.I grep.
.VS
tries to first create this file in the working directory.
If unsuccessful, the home directory is tried.
.TP
.I $SHELL
Your shell.
.TP
.I /bin/pwd
Program which determines the path name of the working directory.
.TP
.I /dev/null
Null file.
