h59324
s 00001/00001/00056
d D 1.2 94/04/18 21:07:55 bostic 2 1
c spell
e
s 00057/00000/00000
d D 1.1 92/07/12 13:02:36 cael 1 0
c date and time created 92/07/12 13:02:36 by cael
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" @(#)rstat.1	2.1 88/08/03 4.0 RPCSRC
.TH RSTAT 1 "3 August 1988"
.SH NAME
rstat \- remote status display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rstat
.B host
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B rstat
displays a summary of the current system status of a particular
.BR host .
The output shows the current time of day, how long the system has
been up,
and the load averages.
The load average numbers give the number of jobs in the run queue
averaged over 1, 5 and 15 minutes.
.PP
The
.B rstat_svc(8c)
daemon must be running on the remote host for this command to
work.
.B rstat
uses an RPC protocol defined in /usr/include/rpcsvc/rstat.x.
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.ft B
.nf
example% rstat otherhost
7:36am  up 6 days, 16:45,  load average: 0.20, 0.23, 0.18
example%
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
rstat: RPC: Program not registered
.IP
The
.B rstat_svc
daemon has not been started on the remote host.
.LP
rstat: RPC: Timed out
.IP
A communication error occurred.  Either the network is
excessively congested, or the
.B rstat_svc
daemon has terminated on the remote host.
.LP
rstat: RPC: Port mapper failure - RPC: Timed out
.IP
The remote host is not running the portmapper (see
.BR portmap(8c) ),
D 2
and cannot accomodate any RPC-based services.  The host may be down.
E 2
I 2
and cannot accommodate any RPC-based services.  The host may be down.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR portmap (8c),
.BR rstat_svc (8c)
E 1
