h55017
s 00002/00002/00212
d D 8.1 93/06/06 22:11:00 bostic 4 3
c 4.4BSD snapshot (revision 8.1); add 1993 to copyright
e
s 00004/00003/00210
d D 6.3 91/04/24 17:35:15 bostic 3 2
c new copyright; att/bsd/shared
e
s 00004/00004/00209
d D 6.2 90/06/23 16:40:48 trent 2 1
c changed /etc/utmp to /var/run/utmp, /usr/spool/uucppublic to /var/spool/uucppublic, and /usr/spool/uucp to /var/spool/uucp
e
s 00213/00000/00000
d D 6.1 86/04/24 22:15:57 mckusick 1 0
c from rfg
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 3
.\" Copyright (c) 1986 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 3
I 3
D 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1986 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 4
I 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1986, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
E 4
.\"
.\" %sccs.include.proprietary.roff%
E 3
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.TH USERFILE 5 "%Q%"
.UC 6
.SH NAME
USERFILE \- \s-1UUCP\s0 pathname permissions file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I USERFILE
file specifies the file system directory trees that are accessible to
local users and to remote systems via \s-1UUCP\s0.
.PP
Each line in
.I USERFILE
is of the form:
.PP
[\fIloginname\fP]\fB,\fP[\fIsystem\fP] [ \fBc\fP ] \fIpathname\fP \c
[\fIpathname\fP] [\fIpathname\fP]
.PP
The first two items are separated by a comma; any number of spaces or
tabs may separate the remaining items.
Lines beginning with a `#' character are comments.
A trailing `\e' indicates that the next line
is a continuation of the current line. 
.PP
.I Loginname
is a login (from
.IR /etc/passwd )
on the local machine.
.PP
.I System
is the name of a remote machine, the same name used in
.IR L.sys (5).
.PP
.I c
denotes the optional
.I callback
field.
If a \fBc\fP appears here, a remote machine that calls in will be told
that callback is requested, and the conversation will be terminated.
The local system will then immediately call the remote host back.
.PP
.I Pathname
is a pathname prefix that is permissible for this
.I login
and/or
.IR system .
.PP
When
.IR uucico (8C)
runs in master role or
.IR uucp (1C)
or
.IR uux (1C)
are run by local users, the permitted pathnames are those on the
first line with a
.I loginname
that matches the name of the user who executed the command.
If no such line exists, then the first line with a null (missing)
.I loginname
field is used.
(Beware:
.I uucico
is often run by the superuser or the \s-1UUCP\s0 administrator through
.IR cron (8).)
.PP
When
.I uucico
runs in slave role, the permitted pathnames are those on the
first line with a
.I system
field that matches the hostname of the remote machine.
If no such line exists, then the first line with a null (missing)
.I system
field is used.
.PP
.IR Uuxqt (8)
works differently; it knows neither a login name nor a hostname.
It accepts the pathnames on the first line that has a null
.I system 
field.
(This is the same line that is used by
.I uucico
when it cannot match the remote machine's hostname.)
.PP
A line with both
.I loginname
and
.I system
null, for example
.IP
D 2
.B ,  /usr/spool/uucppublic
E 2
I 2
.B ,  /var/spool/uucppublic
E 2
.PP	
can be used to conveniently specify the paths for both "no match" cases
if lines earlier in
.I USERFILE
did not define them.
(This differs from older Berkeley and all USG versions, where each case
must be individually specified.
If neither case is defined earlier,
a "null" line only defines the "unknown login" case.)
.PP
To correctly process
.I loginname
on systems that assign several logins per UID,
the following strategy is used to determine the current
.IR loginname :
.TP
1)
If the process is attached to a terminal, a login entry exists in
D 2
.IR /etc/utmp ,
E 2
I 2
.IR /var/run/utmp ,
E 2
and the UID for the
.I utmp
name matches the current real UID, then
.IR loginname
is set to the
.I utmp
name.
.TP
2)
If the
.B USER
environment variable is defined and the UID for this name matches
the current real UID, then
.IR loginname
is set to the name in
.BR USER .
.TP
3)
If both of the above fail, call
.IR getpwuid (3)
to fetch the first name in
.I /etc/passwd
that matches the real UID.
.TP
4)
If all of the above fail, the utility aborts.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/uucp/UUAIDS/USERFILE   'u
.nf
/usr/lib/uucp/USERFILE
/usr/lib/uucp/UUAIDS/USERFILE	USERFILE example
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
uucp(1C), uux(1C), L.cmds(5), L.sys(5), uucico(8C), uuxqt(8C)
.SH NOTES
The \s-1UUCP\s0 utilities
.RI ( uucico ,
.IR uucp ,
.IR uux ,
and
.IR uuxqt )
always have access to the \s-1UUCP\s0 spool files in
D 2
.IR /usr/spool/uucp ,
E 2
I 2
.IR /var/spool/uucp ,
E 2
regardless of pathnames in
.IR USERFILE .
.PP
If
.B uucp
is listed in
.IR L.cmds (5),
then a remote system will execute
.I uucp 
on the local system with the
.I USERFILE
privileges for its
.IR login ,
not its hostname.
.PP
.I Uucico
freely switches between master and slave roles during the course of a
conversation, regardless of the role it was started with.
This affects how
.I USERFILE
is interpreted.
.SH WARNING
.I USERFILE
restricts access only on strings that the \s-1UUCP\s0 utilities identify
as being pathnames.
If the wrong holes are left in other \s-1UUCP\s0 control files (notably
.IR L.cmds ),
it can be easy for an intruder to open files anywhere in the file system.
Arguments to
.IR uucp (1C)
are safe, since it assumes all of its non-option arguments are files.
.IR Uux (1C)
cannot make such assumptions; hence, it is more dangerous.
.SH BUGS
The
.I "\s-1UUCP\s0 Implementation Description"
explicitly states that all remote login names must be listed in
.IR USERFILE .
This requirement is not enforced by Berkeley \s-1UUCP\s0, although it is
by USG \s-1UUCP\s0.
.PP
Early versions of 4.2BSD
.IR uuxqt (8)
erroneously check \s-1UUCP\s0 spool files against the
.I USERFILE
pathname permissions.
Hence, on these systems it is necessary to specify
D 2
.I /usr/spool/uucp
E 2
I 2
.I /var/spool/uucp
E 2
as a valid path on the
.I USERFILE
line used by
.IR uuxqt .
Otherwise, all
.IR uux (1C)
requests are rejected with a "PERMISSION DENIED" message.
E 1
